I'm trying not to cry. I'm just like,
um, [snorts] I hate suffering. [music]
I've suffered myself and so I hate to
see anybody suffer. And so, um, this is
my mission. This is what I'm made for.
And, um, I'm just one guy. I can't do
everything, but I can do a lot.
Um, I always try to help people say,
"How can you turn your worst [music] day
into your best day?"
>> Please help me welcome to the stage,
Tony Robbins.
He's the nation's number one life and
business strategist.
>> He's worked with royalty, elite
athletes, Oscar winners, scientists,
[music] and everyone in between
>> to overcome their limitations and
accelerate change.
>> Can you take us back to the environment
that shaped you into the man that you
are?
>> So, I grew up in a tough environment. I
had four different fathers. My mom,
[music] she drank alcohol and took
prescription drugs. We had no money, no
food. And then the thing that changed my
whole life was a knock on the door on
Thanksgiving. There was this tall guy
standing there with two bags of
groceries and an uncooked frozen turkey
in a pan. And my dad saw this man. He
said, "We don't take charity." And he
went and slammed the door on the guy.
But it became a very useful and
distinction for me about how he and I
process that day differently because
there's three decisions you make every
moment of your life. And the real
problem is the story you have. For
example, that day my dad's focus was the
fact he not fed his family and he was
worthless. However, I took that as
strangers care. And so the story is the
belief you've [music] told yourself over
and over because belief is the invisible
force that controls everything in your
life. And then there's the third
decision. What am I going to do? And
[music] so what I decided to do is
someday I'm going to do this for others
and end suffering where I can. And so
I'm going to show you how to get clear
what you really want. Figure out what's
been stopping you. Put the plan in place
and teach you the most important thing
that's made me successful.
>> And I don't think people fully realize
the significance of how many of the most
influential people on planet Earth you
have worked with and continue to work
with. What is the pattern that you
noticed in those people?
>> So, I found four things with them. And
the first thing is,
>> listen, my my team gave me a script that
they asked me to read, but I'm just
going to ask you um in the nicest way I
possibly can. Thank you first and
foremost for choosing to subscribe to
this channel. It is um it's been one of
the most incredible, crazy years of my
life. I never could have imagined. I had
so many dreams in my life, but this was
not one of them. And the very fact that
these conversations have resonated with
you and you've given me so much feedback
is something I will always be
appreciative of. and I almost carry away
a sort of burden of uh responsibility to
pay you back. And the favor I would like
to ask from you today is to subscribe to
the channel if you um would be so
obliged. It's completely free to do
that. Roughly about 47% of you that
listen to this channel frequently
currently don't subscribe to this
channel. So, if you're one of those
people, please come and join us. Hit the
subscribe button. It's the single free
thing you can do to make this channel
better. And every subscriber sort of
pays into this show and allows us to do
things bigger and better and to push
ourselves even more. And I will not let
you down if you hit the subscribe
button. I promise you. And if I do,
please do unsubscribe, but I promise I
won't. Thank you, [music]
Tony. I was I was shocked. It was so
surprising to me that you had the
childhood you had based on the outcomes
that you've accomplished in your life.
And as someone that has followed you for
a very long time, I imagine that there's
many other people that have followed you
for a very long time that have no idea
about the early context. For those
people,
>> can you take us back to the environment
that shaped you into the man that you
are?
>> Well, I think, you know, I grew up I
grew up in a tough environment. I had um
four different fathers. My mom was a
very intense and passionate woman. Uh we
never had any money. We're very very
poor. Uh my mom was probably the most
important influence in my life by far.
Um very loving woman but a very stressed
woman and under that stress she drank
alcohol and took prescription drugs and
when she did that she became very
violent. So I took the brunt of that and
then figured out how to manage her
emotions basically. Uh it's where all my
beginning training really happened and
yet at the same time she was loving it.
She pushed me. She believed in me. Uh
she wanted me to be something. So she
influenced my life in so many beautiful
ways. And then probably what changed my
life the most though is my forefather
especially made it clear no one gives a
damn about anybody else. We lived in a
um what I thought was an upper class uh
community or city but we were on the
other side of the tracks. It was lower
middle class and we were you know
literally right by the railroad tracks
where the worst of the worst live so to
speak. And so we're kind of looked down
on. And so it really looked like nobody
cares. And then the thing that changed
my whole life a single event was a knock
on the door on Thanksgiving. We had no
money, no food. When I say no food, we
had crackers and peanut butter, but not
a Thanksgiving dinner, right? And uh my
dad has been mom are screaming each
other through a door and my dad had lost
his job. You get the knock of the door
and I go open the door and there's this
tall guy standing there with two bags of
groceries, one in each hand, and at his
feet he had an uncooked frozen turkey in
in a pan, you know. And he said, "Is
your father here?" And I was like, "Just
one moment." You know, and I was like,
it was Christmas morning. So, I go to my
dad and I go, "Hey, Dad, there's someone
at the door for you." And he goes, "Who
is it?" And I said, "I don't know. It's
for you." He goes, "Well, you answered."
I said, "I already did. It's for you."
So, he goes over there and I'm waiting
like with such excitement for him to
open the door. And he saw this man and
he was not happy. He looked at this man
before the guy say a word and he said,
"We don't take charity." And he went and
slammed the door on the guy. But the man
had leaned in because of the groceries
and it hit his shoulder and it bounced
off, which made my dad even matter. And
they said, "Sir, sir," he said,
"Somebody knows you're having a tough
time. Everyone has tough times. They
want you to have this food for your
family for Thanksgiving." He goes, "I'm
just the delivery guy." And my father
said, "We don't take charity." And he
pushed the door again. But this time,
because the guy's leaning, his foot now
has stepped in. It hit his foot and
bounced off. And then now my dad's
getting more fired up. And I'm standing
looking at this whole thing, and it's
like a car crash happening. And the guy
said something to my dad. I thought my
dad was going to punch him in the face.
He didn't say it meanly. He said, "Sir,"
he said, he saw me. He said, "Don't make
your family, you know, suffer because of
your ego."
And I can still see it like yesterday.
My dad's veins on both sides of his neck
were just pumping and he was red as can
be. And then he just dropped his
shoulders. He took the groceries. He
slammed it on the table and he slammed
the door. And he never even said thank
you. It took me maybe a decade to
eventually figure it out. And it became
a very useful and distinction for me
about how he and I process that day
differently because I believe there's
three decisions you make every moment of
your life. You're making them right now
if you're listening to me and so is your
audience. The first one is what are you
going to focus on? You're going to be
focused on what happened yesterday, what
you're going to have for lunch, what I'm
saying, how it relates to you. There are
millions of things you can focus on. But
you don't experience life. You
experience the life you focus on. And
most of us are distortion deletion
creatures. Our brains don't take it all
in consciously. it's too much. So our
brains delete things. We distort things.
We generalize things so we can make it
through our lives. And so if you don't
control your focus, you react. And that
day, my dad's focus was the fact he not
fed his family. It wasn't hard to figure
out. He said it over and over again
after after he slammed the door. And my
focus was, "Wow, there's food. What a
concept." You know, I was excited. But
the second decision you make every
moment, the minute you focus on
something, your brain has to figure out,
what does this mean? Is this the end or
the beginning? Is this person dissing
me? Is they are they challenging me? Are
they coaching me? Are they loving me?
And whatever meaning you give, it
produces emotion. And out of that
emotion, you make the third decision.
What am I going to do? And that day, I
know the meaning my dad did. It wasn't
just that he didn't feed his family.
It's that he was worthless. You know, I
can't even feed my family. And he
muttered all this stuff continuously.
But I I took that as stranger's care. It
completely violated everything I had
experienced in my life up until that
point. And my brain was like, if a
stranger doesn't even want credit for
this and they fed my family on
Thanksgiving,
I got to care about strangers. And so
what I decided to do is someday I'm
going to I'm going to do this for
others. And so when I was 17, I went out
and I uh I didn't have a lot of money,
but was doing okay. And I went to a
grocery store and I told the manager
what happened in my life and I said, "I
want to feed two families. Help me out.
Give me a discount." And he gave me 10%
off. And I thought, "Cheep bastard." But
I took it. I had the most enjoyable
shopping. I took two shopping carts and
just filled it up with two families. And
then I um I called this church and I
said, "Who do you know that needs help
but won't ask for it? Won't come for
it." And they gave me two families
names. And so I wrote a little note. I
just put this is a gift from a friend.
Everyone has tough times. I hope you
have a beautiful Thanksgiving and
someday if you can pay this forward. I
didn't use the word pay it forward. I
said do this for someone else. But now
you look at us pay it forward. and I put
love a friend. And then I I realized I
was going to the bario area of the city
and I was like maybe they don't speak
English. So I had a friend of mine write
in Spanish on the back. So I figured I
could flip it over. And I the first
house I went to, it's a little tiny
place. I knock on the door and this
woman about this tall asmatic woman sees
me and sees the food and screams and
then grabs my head and pulls it down,
starts kissing me on the cheek and said,
"No, no, no. Delivery boy, delivery
boy." And she and I and I pull out the
note and I flipped it over in Spanish
and she read it and then she started to
cry and she goes and she started giving
me kissing. I said, "No, deliver." She
goes, "No, gift of God. Gift of God."
And I'm trying not to cry, you know,
just like um I feel like it was
yesterday still. And so, um I the door
opened. It's a tiny little place size of
your kitchen here or reminder of your
kitchen. And um and I I was so excited
to start food down. All a sudden I heard
screams and then next thing I know I'm
hit by one and by another four boys. And
one hit one leg, one hit the other. They
saw the food they went crazy. Um and I
said, "Come help me." You had other
stuff in the van. And when they saw the
pumpkin pie, it was really over, you
know, and we bought all this food in and
it was time to go. And um the father had
left them. I found out later 4 days
before Thanksgiving with no money and no
food. And I'm anyway I'm looking through
the mirror and I just started crying
uncontrollably and I'm like why am I
crying so bad? This is such a beautiful
moment. And I just realized you know my
worst day of my life was really my best
day. That the day that was the most
painful to me cuz that father is the one
who he adopted me. I carry his name. um
that I wouldn't be there that day. I'm a
good human being, but you know, would I
work as hard as I worked to feed other
people? I mean, I'm next year I did
four, then eight, then 12, then I had a
little company. I got my employees
involved. Then I got to a million
people, two million people. And then
about 12 years ago, I decided I want to
throw I want to feed a billion meals
here in the United States in 10 years.
And so, it's grown and grown and grown,
all from not being fed. And so, I I I
see it as a blessing. I see. I always
try to help people say, "How could you
turn your worst day into your best day?"
That's when life is really magical.
>> How many years has it been since you met
that young mother with her four
children?
>> I was 17. I'm going to be 66.
>> Wow. 50 years.
>> Yeah.
>> And it still brings you to tears to
recount that.
>> It really does.
>> Why? Why is that?
>> Um I have a I hate suffering. I've
suffered myself and so I hate to see
anybody suffer. And so I'm unbelievably
driven to end suffering where I can to
help anyone do that. Whether it be
hunger or emotional hunger or depression
or sadness or relationship or I just I
don't know what it is. I just I love
human beings. I hate suffering and I
hate and I love to see when somebody
awakens to who they are. And we all are
so much more than we ever you know
perceive oursel to be. But many times
you don't discover that until you have
to. I like to try and show people how to
do it. So I have to wait till life hits
them. you know, anything you can
imagine. We're all going to go through
extreme stress in our lives, but how do
you do stress or distress? Use you. And
so, my whole thing is help people show
them how to use stress. Cuz I don't care
how good a person you are. I don't care
how spiritual or religious you are. I
don't care how smart you are, how rich
you think you are. Every human being is
going to go through extreme stress
multiple times in their life. And the
real question is, what are you gonna do
with it? And the first thing is, if
you're going through hell, keep going.
But if you keep going, you discover
number one how strong you really are.
Cuz if you don't give up, you'll
discover who you are. The second thing
you find out is who your real friends
are. Cuz when things aren't so great,
you get to see who those are. And then
third, it almost gives you like an
inoculation to future stress. Cuz like I
had a friend that was shot down in
Vietnam and was in a prison there for
seven years in solitary confinement. And
um Captain Coffee is his name. And I
remember I met him later in life and he
was going through this tough thing with
the IRS and it was so unfair. It took
him three years. He got his money back.
But I said, "Doesn't that drive you
crazy?" He goes, "After being with the
North Vietnamese," he goes, "You know,
what could the IRS do to me?" You know,
so I think those pieces are there. But
everyone gets called on the journey.
Most people try to resist it, but that
journey, that's what the call is. It's a
call to grow. So I'm I'm big on change
your story, change your life. And I'm
big on understanding the narrative of
where you are in the story of your life.
Because if you understand where you are,
it gives context. It gives meaning and
it doesn't make you feel overwhelmed.
>> Had your mother not suffered in such a
way, do you think this would be so
important to you had you not observed
that suffering?
>> Yeah. No, I I I I've often said I'm like
I said earlier, I think I'm I'm a good
human being. I think I still to help
people, but would I providing 62 billion
meals and working around the clock on
top of, you know, my 114 companies and
all that? No, I don't think I would. And
that hunger comes very often from pain.
But pain's not enough to keep you going.
Pain only goes so far. You've got to
find something that it's like I I tell
people there's two types of motivation,
right? There's push motivation. You
know, you're making something happen.
And I have enormous willpower. I'm sure
you do. Most of the people we probably
interact with have great willpower,
right?
>> But there's still a limit to it. But
there's no limit to pole motivation.
Pole is there's something so magnificent
you want to serve something that you
care about more than yourself. That's
where all the energy in life comes from.
You know what's in your heart and your
soul. What wakes you up in the morning
and makes you go. And I think if I
hadn't had the pain, I don't think I
would have been sensitized. But I also
if I hadn't felt the pleasure of serving
and seeing impact on such a large scale,
then you know, you'd be limited because
you listen, meeting your own needs is
not that hard. Like I my biggest beef
with right now is since co is this whole
self-care revolution we've got. I mean,
you got to take care of yourself. Don't
get me wrong. I take care of myself. And
you know, you get weaker and weaker the
more you focus on yourself. The human
mind is always going to figure out
something that isn't good enough. But
when you're serving, you're not there.
Like your mind's not there. You're with
the people. You're with what you're
doing. And it's the escape from the
mind's reductionism. And so I really
believe that people the secret to life
is to find something you care about more
than yourself that gives you that pull
motivation. And then you're never going
to lack for energy. You're never going
to lack for passion. You're never going
to lack for anything. And you're going
to have a life that's extremely
meaningful. It's not happy every moment
there. They're not meant to be. If you
smile, have you ever smiled so much face
hurt?
>> You know, we need variety. So you But
meaning that's something you can find no
matter what.
>> I asked you before we started recording
um a question I almost never ask any of
my guests, which is what is the thing
that we should be talking about the
most? and you told me, you know, shortly
after um what your answer was, but you
know, even shortly after that, you then
went on to talk to me about how you're
driven to end suffering. Now, if I
compare these two answers, the answer
you gave me to the question I asked
about what's the most important thing
for us to be talking about and your
second point about your desire to end
suffering, there's probably some kind of
overlap.
>> There is. Yeah. So, if I were to ask you
just for because we weren't recording
then, what you think maybe the most
consequential thing we should be talking
about right now is as it relates to
suffering and everything that's going on
in society, what would that answer be?
>> I think it's uh AI, but it's not just
AI, it's nanotechnology, it's how
technology, the rapid change in
technology and if you don't believe it's
going to destroy humanity and it's going
to liberate us from a lot of labor, if
you believe that, the ones that promote
that concept. If that does happen and we
displace this many jobs in this short a
period of time, jobs are not just money.
Jobs are meaning. It's not the only form
of meaning, but it's meaning. So, it's
like you talk about, well, we'll do give
people UBI and okay, I think you might
have to because the changes are going to
happen so rapidly. Like I said, you
know, farming, 80% of us were farmers
150 years ago. Now, it's 3%. We feed the
world. That's a long transition. Uh, I
think I mentioned to you off the air
here, I was visiting with President
Obama 10 years ago and towards the end
of his term there and I was saying,
"Hey, I just got to talk to you. You
know, you inherited a pretty tough
economy from the original 2008 explosion
breakdown. We lost 8 million jobs." So,
I said, "There's technology coming right
now that we can predict is going to
displace more than those 8 million
jobs." And I talked to him at that time
just about I said, "Just take one like
self-driving cars." We were just
starting to come out. I said, "In the
next 10, 12, 13, 14 years, they're going
to become ubiquitous." And I said,
"There's 8 million truck drivers, Uber
drivers, and taxi drivers. And
[clears throat] are you doing anything
to retool them?" I said, "Because
>> just in the US,
>> just in the US." I said, "Because if you
don't, think about this. If I'm a
business person and I can hire a person
to drive a truck only eight hours a day,
I have to pay for the healthcare, which
gets more expensive every year. Um,
they're going to [__] at me about
things. And I can buy a truck that can
drive 24 hours a day. My insurance is
cheaper because it doesn't make mistakes
and I can depreciate the asset. Am I
going to hire anybody? I said, so those
jobs going to go that's 8 million.
That's one sector. We could look at
pharma. There's so many industries
affected. So I said, we've got to retool
those people now where there's 10 years
to gear them up because these are not
people that are going to do it on their
own and they're going to be shocked. The
shock to their system. The loss of
dignity of of being in control agency of
their own life, of their own job, of
their own direction is huge. And if you
go back to like the Ludites, you know,
you're from the UK, right? You must know
your history there. 1800s, you know,
Merkantile, they come up with these
machines and how did people react? And
by the way, this story is the same
across history. We have a radical change
like this. All these people are
displaced and what did they do? They
rioted. They took hammers and they
destroyed those machines. They
threatened to kill the owners of those
companies and some were shot and killed.
They blew up and firebomb places. And
what did the UK uh you know do about
this? They passed a law in the first
year of this of these ludites saying you
destroy machine, it's capital
punishment. They hung people because
they couldn't have them destroy the
growth of the of the economy, right? And
guess what? 15 years later, the same
thing happened again with the thrashers.
thrasher machines that were used for
wheat and they lost all the jobs and the
people and the government overreacted.
I'm not trying to be overly dramatic,
but if anything this transition is just
going to be smooth by us doing nothing,
they're wrong. And the problem is, as I
mentioned to you before, I think the
leverage is not in favor of us taking
care of society. The leverage is the
carrot and the stick. The carrot is I
can make a trillion dollars if I have
the right LLM or, you know, if I get to
artificial general intelligence. Who
knows? And if we don't do it, China's
going to do it. That's the stick. And
then they're going to run the world. So
there's no focus on safety virtually, as
you well know. And there's certainly no
focus on what's happening with these
jobs. Right now, high school students
are getting jobs more than college
students for the first time in 50 years,
right? You see the displacement. You
know, you got friends just like I do.
Mark Benoff's one of my dear friends.
They let go of like what was it? I think
it was was it 5,000 customer service
agents and now it's done with AI now.
Now he wants to elevate them to other
jobs. So we have to look at what this
means to our society. We have to
anticipate what this means and we've got
to retool not just the jobs but the
psychology because people talk about a
post-work world. You hear people talk
about this all the time. Elon, people
like that. They labor is not like
electricity. You just take it for
granted. It's so cheap. It's so easy.
Well, if that's true, and he's talking 3
to 5 years, and a lot of people say
Elon's early, he usually is uh in his
predictions, but Ray Kerszwell is a good
friend of mine. He's the most accurate
predictor of technology in history. And
he's been saying 2029 for almost 20
years is when we have artificial general
intelligence. If you go to Hinton, I
think you've interviewed Hinton, haven't
you? Right. So, he's the longest. He's
saying 2030 to 2040. He's given us a
little more room. In the next 3 to 10
years, this is going to happen. How are
we prepared for this?
And so this is the questions I'm trying
to bring up to people that have
influence to say if you're in business,
you got to take a look at this. If
you're in government, you got to take a
look at this. And so I I just got um
they haven't announced yet, but I just
got selected to be on the federal
advisory committee for the president and
for the health and human services and
I'm on the mental health side and I'm
hoping to use that position to bring
more of government's focus into this
category as well because it's it's got
to be addressed
>> when we recite these. And that's by the
way the answer to your question is and
that's suffering.
>> That's suffering at the highest level.
Not just financial suffering. That's
emotional suffering. That's loss of
identity suffering. If I am a coder, I
am a truck driver and I lose who I am.
Now I just want to say one last thing.
We've already been in a postwork world
because I one person said to me
recently, well, for 4,000 years we tied
our identity to our work. I said, no,
Americans all go, what do you do? Not
everybody in the world does that. And
for 4,000 years, our connection post
before the agricultural revolution was
really what tribe we're connected to.
And our sense of significance was maybe
our courage in battle, not our financial
component. Or maybe it was our
creativity, our poetry, our storytelling
capacity, or maybe it was our
generosity. Um maybe it was our wisdom.
So we can find other things to have
meaning besides a job. But if you don't
take a culture that's been conditioned
for 200 years to think a certain way,
we're going to have a lot of pain. And I
would like to see us have less of that
if we could. And I'm only one person,
but I'll do my best to help people make
that transition.
>> It's funny because when we think about
those historical examples of transition,
I for many reasons think this is even
more extreme.
>> I agree.
>> Because you have intelligence and you
have you've basically disrupted both the
muscles and the mind. But you know if
the reason it's going to explode even
faster is because we're moving from LLM
to now actually studying visually what's
happening in the real world. And when
robots do that then the game changes
their tempo of learning. And just think
about this. You and I are having a
conversation. I picked up one of your
books here and I'm reading through your
book. So I want to get a feel for who
you are and everything else before I
came here. I've seen some of your videos
but and I know like I really enjoyed it.
But I had to go get that. I had to take
a couple hours to dig through that. You
and I have a conversation. If either one
of us learn something we're a machine.
every machine knows it instantly. You
push one button and they have all of
that knowledge. There's none of this
word transfer. It's just it's now. So,
[snorts] people don't realize what this
really means. And when you're learning
from the real world, not just LLMs,
right now, you and I are our brains are
predictive devices. They're predicting
what is going to happen next to the best
of our ability. And we're trying to
close that gap as much as we can or we
get jolted. Well, think how predictively
that's going to do to people's heads
when all of a sudden their labor is not
needed.
>> And it's no longer blue collar labor,
which is what people thought it would
be. It's white collar labor. I mean,
like my financial I have a lot of I have
uh I own 95 different private equity
firms. I have own the firms, not the
actual funds, right? So, I get to do and
20 of them and I got pieces of all of
them. So, they're biggest in the world.
And so, I get to take a look at some of
the things that are happening so fast.
And I look at all those jobs and I see
people in those industries and quantum
is taking it took over maybe five years
ago. I've seen the shrink in these
offices from staffs the guys who are
making 5 million $10 million a year that
are now unemployed. Right? It's not just
the blue collar worker. It's everyone.
So you're right. This has never happened
before in history. And what's being done
about it?
>> More money's been put into it to
accelerate it.
>> The carrot and stick, the trillionaire
and China, those two pieces are driving
it all. And a few people are trying to
hammer like Hinton and a few other
people. We got to work on safety here so
it doesn't eliminate the human race. And
I'm not a reactionary person, but you
know of what is it 25 30% of them people
that work in AI say that they think it
could potentially do that. I mean like
you could use electricity to kill people
or light up a city. So all technology is
that challenge. But this is a different
technology. This is a technology that
keeps learning can replicate itself.
Right now they don't even know how some
of this actually works. They don't know
how the AI is actually working. It's
teaching itself. These AIs now have
their own language. I'm sure you know
they're talking no longer in English to
each other. And you know, I'm sure
you've seen the studies, right, where
they give them information on in the
email and then they say they're going to
shut shut off the AI and it blackmails
them by giving them they g information
about somebody having an affair and it
blackmails them. I mean, it lies. So,
we're we're living in a crazy world
where the opportunity is greater than
any time in his history for us to be
creators. We were created and we're
meant to create and we've got tools to
create like never before. But we we're
going to have to make sure that as we're
doing that, we've got some parameters
around safety and some parameters about
what does it do to society. And I don't
have the perfect answers for it. But I
do know one thing, retooling is the
answer. And I don't believe most people
will be replaced by an AI. They'll be
replaced by somebody who knows how to
use AI.
>> Yeah. One of the things you said there
really blew my mind when I watched a
video from Boston Dynamics this week
where they the guy explained how these
robots are going to learn. And he goes
there's two ways. One way is we're going
to get our factory workers to wear a
suit and every time the factory worker
does something the the all the robots
are going to learn that thing. And the
other thing is he said is if one of our
robots learns something whether it's how
to pick up a book or how to make an
omelette every robot learns it
instantaneously. And my mind was like
wow that is I personally
don't know where this leaves us. to well
neither do I but there are certain
things you know it's leading us towards
you know it's going to lead us to a
great deal of violence because there are
going to be people like have always
happened with technology displaces them
only this is going to be a global event
across multiple areas and not just
drivers of Ubers and truck drivers if we
don't get our act together and have a
plan there's going to be violence for
some period of time there'll be there's
that grief period of loss and that
people go through when something jars
them that much and some people don't
return from that grief. And some people
are going to take this technology and
they're going to go off. It's already
happening now even without AI. There are
more males at home 25 to 35 living at
home with their family not working than
any time in human history including the
depression. Right? There are I think
it's 25% or I think it was 30% I forgot
the number. I just saw it recently of
young men have never approached a woman
to ask her out for a date. They play
video games all day long. their mom does
their laundry and they order Uber Eats.
This is a mass number of people. That's
just the technology of getting somebody
gamified. Imagine with AI. So, some
people are going to go live there and
some people are going to go the Star
Trek route and say, "I'm going to figure
out what makes human existence be here."
But it's not hard to figure out. The
majority are not going to go the Star
Trek route. And so, we've got to have a
bridge because of the time compression.
If this was a hundred years to do it, we
could adjust. There will be more jobs.
There'll be new jobs. There'll be new
time. But it's the time frame that I'm
most concerned about. So when you ask me
what I'm concerned about, that's what
I'm concerned about because it creates
suffering. And it's something that we
can predict is going to create
suffering. And yet I see very few people
in positions of influence and power
doing much about it.
>> So on an individual level, if you were
an 18-year-old Tony Robbins, what would
you be doing at this moment? What would
you be focusing on work-wise? How would
you be designing your life for such a
world?
>> I have five kids and five grandkids,
right? So, I have a 52-year-old daughter
and I have a thanks to CO a 4-year-old
daughter. So, CO was good to me. I was
home. So, um I look at my my especially
my grandkids and my daughter and I say
they're entering a world that none of us
have known before. And so, how do I arm
them for it? And the answer is a couple
of things. Number one, I have to teach
them not to do what most people in the
world do. Most people you talk to of any
even quote successful people, whatever
that means, they're stressed all the
time. Stress. I'm so stressed. You hear
people talk about stress all the time.
It's like they argue about who's more
stressed. And I I look at that and go,
why are they stressed? And the answer is
because they're managing their life.
We're not made to manage circumstances.
We're made to create. We were created by
something. Call it your creator. Call it
the universe. Call it God. Whatever you
want to call it. And we were made to
create. And when we create, we're alive.
When we just try to maintain or manage
or hold on to something, if we're just
caught up in making a living instead of
designing a life, life is a [__] And
that's why so many people have so many
challenges. So, I'm teaching my kids to
be creators and I teach them the second
piece, the most important thing I
believe that's made me successful. And
anyone I've ever interviewed, you
interviewed a million people. You see if
you agree or disagree with me. The three
most important skills in life now are
the ones that allow you to learn more
rapidly. If you learn rapidly, you can
win no matter what happens with the
technology. And what are those three
skills? Number one, the skill of pattern
recognition.
When you can recognize patterns, you
eliminate fear. Fear comes from this has
never happened before. I don't know what
this is. Chaos. Like I hear people all
the time talk about how we've never been
this place politically where here in
America where the most we're going to
have a civil war. The And they don't do
any history whatsoever. I I have these
two placards that I have because back
then they didn't have ads, right? They
had placards and one is from Thomas
Jefferson talking about Adams and one of
Adams about Jefferson and they said
stuff that make Republicans and
Democrats look like they're nice to each
other. I mean it's just unbelievable the
stuff they said. This is a cycle. And so
when you recognize a pattern it gives
you power, potential power at least. The
first power is you're not not afraid
anymore. You go now this is not
something that's never happened. This is
not something that's going to I I can
see this. I can see how this has been
dealt with. What took us from living in
fear, from being hunter gatherers or
trying to survive every day, didn't know
if we're going to survive every day to
being able to stay in one place?
What pattern recognition?
>> I was going to say the seasons, but
>> you got it.
>> Really?
>> That's it. The seasons. I figured you
got the seasons. Because before that,
you could do the right thing at the
wrong time and you get pain. And three
of the four seasons are the wrong time.
So once we figured out, oh my god, if I
plant in the spring and I take care
through the hot summer, I get this big
reaping and if I hang on to some of it
to make it through the winter, I can
live here. I don't have to worry. All my
fear disappears. So we have the minute
we understood seasons, it changed
humanity. And by the way, there's the
seasons to your life. You could say 0 to
21 is springtime. Springtime. How hard
is it for something to grow in
springtime? If you start a business in
an economic spring where everybody's
optimistic, you think you're a genius,
you're just in the right season, right?
>> So 0 to 21, you're taken care of. And
that season, you grow like crazy.
Somewhere around in roughly, and
everyone's different, 21, 22 years old,
you go the next stage, 22 to 42, and
that's your summertime. That's the
testing period of your life. What
happens? You are 21, you've heard all
this stuff, and now you go, you know
what? I don't know if I believe this
[__] I want to see what I believe.
But I'm going to test all history, all
studies of psychology show this is the
most difficult time in most people's
lives, right? 22 to 42. So if you're in
that range and you're listening, I love
you. Hang in there. [laughter]
You know, this is this is your ground.
If you keep growing, this is a great
time. All right? Somewhere in that
range, you make a transition. Somewhere
around 30, 35, you're 33, you just got
engaged. Congratulations. Right? You
start to move towards a family. You
start to have those experiences. I'm
sure yours will be very successful. many
aren't. Right? So at 42 43 to 63, that's
the fall. If you planted in the spring,
right, and you worked your tail off
during that hot summer, now you can do
more with your pinky than working around
the clock. You know more people, you
have relationships. You recognize the
patterns. You know what's going on. It's
nothing's really a shock or surprise to
you. You're more strategic. You're more
efficient or more elegant. You have more
choices. um you've learned a lot of
lessons if you grew. Now, if you didn't
plant in the spring and work hard in the
in the summer, you're going to weep in
the fall, not reap in the fall, right?
But so now this is this is your power
period. This is when most people earn
the most money in their life if they're
going to grow because they've
accumulated knowledge, skills,
relationships, and so forth. And then
the winter is comes back to that 64 to
84 to 104 to the oldest humans 124. That
period is a transition period to where
you become a real leader because you're
no longer, you know, in that 22 to 42,
you're trying to prove yourself to
yourself or maybe other people or both.
But there's a point when you get into
your power group. You know who you are
by the time you get into this last
season, this, you know, 64 to 84, 104,
124, you know who the f you are. I mean,
and and you you want people to like what
you do, but if they don't, it's like,
you know who you are. You don't give a
[__] I've just entered that season
myself. I'm about to be 66 in a few
weeks and um it's the most fulfilling
season of all. Um it's mindbgggling. I
wouldn't believe that when I was your
age. That's why I'm sharing it. It's if
you're healthy, if you're fit, if you're
strong. Um if you don't do that, then
it's can be a [__] that time. But if
you're healthy and strong, you have 40
year relationships, 35 year business
relationships. You have friends that
adore you and love them and you're it's
unbreakable. It's unshakable. you have
an intimate relationship or a family or
husband and wife relationship if you've
built to that point that is beyond
anything you could have dreamed of or
hoped for. You wake up every day and you
know that life is a gift and you want to
give back even more. Like you're more
driven than you were when you were in
the 22 to 42 stage. Those are the
seasons. There's one more. Your seasons
of history and your season of history
shapes how you shape your life. So you
can look at a thousand years of Roman
history. I'm very much in history and
500 years of Anglo-American history. Um,
and you start to see patterns. In fact,
I'd recommend for everyone there's a
book called Generations. Have you read
it?
>> No.
>> When I was working with President uh
Clinton
in those days, I worked with President
Clinton. I went across the other side
and worked with the speaker of the house
Gingrich. I on the same day on Clinton's
on on his desk on the resolute desk was
this book generations. And I asked him
about it and he told me about how it
it's amazing. It shows how history is
somewhat predictable and why the cycles
are generated by different generations,
how we react the way we're we grew up.
And then I go over to Gingrich's office
and he's a historian. He's got it on his
desk.
>> It's a pretty thick book, good size
book. My point is it if you want to
navigate your life, you need pattern
recognition so you don't go in reaction.
And one thing is to understand seasons
are a great pattern. They freed us.
There are seasons of your life. You
should think about this season. What's
this season about for you? What do you
want to extract from this season? And
every season has predictable challenges
and predictable opportunities. And where
am I in the season? Some people go
through their springtime during a war, a
winter time. Some people go through
their springtime in a fall. We all grew
up with different environments. And so
we're shaped by that. And that's why
history's changed. So, but let me finish
the last last piece. I've gone way long.
I apologize. But I said there's three
skills. What What do we need, right?
First one is pattern recognition. The
second one is pattern utilization.
So I watch you like you, you and I both,
we develop companies, took them public
very early ages, made a lot of money and
figured out it wasn't just about money,
right? You know, looking at your
history. You didn't just recognize
patterns, you used them. You saw them in
marketing areas. You saw online
opportunities. You saw things. You
didn't just, oh, now I understand it.
You jumped on it. Anyone who's
incredibly successful in anything, if
they're great at dance, if they're great
at investing in companies, they're great
in running companies, if they're great
in singing, they recognize there are
certain patterns. And then the final
skill, and this is what I'm teaching my
children, is you ultimately want to
become a pattern creator. Take an
example. Same learn to play the piano,
right? Yeah. How do you learn to play
the piano? You got to recognize
patterns. And usually you're taught
someone else's patterns that produce
something beautiful,
>> right? could be Bach Beethoven, it could
be some rock, it could be whatever
you're learning. And so you learn those
patterns and you practice them. You
learn to use them, right? And now you
can produce the same music. There is a
point and I'm sure you've experienced
this already and you're going to
experience a lot more in the next 10
years of your life. You've taken so much
input in, you've recognized so many
patterns that now you come through and
you become the pattern creator. And
that's when you start to become the goat
of your industry, the best of all time.
You look at, you know, Tom Brady's a
friend of mine. Like he made pattern
distinctions no one else made on how to
keep his body strong, one of the most
important ones. So he had the duration,
but also how to read the defense, know
what's happening. Those tools, he
started create his own patterns about
how to deal with that, right? And so
once you create your own patterns, you
bring something to the table that's
never been there before. And when you
make something never been there before,
your value goes through the roof. When I
met Jim Ran, my original personal
development teacher, he changed my life
radically. I went when I was 17 years
old. He Oh, yeah. That's great picture.
That's great.
I love that man. Beautiful man. I I went
What I did was I was working as a
janitor. I'm in high school, sophomore
year, and I had um my mom came home one
day and said, "Uh, we've got a friend
that needs somebody to help move stuff."
And I was always trying to earn some
extra money. And so, and it was the
weekends and I wasn't doing the
janitorial work on the weekends. So, I
said, "Okay, I'll I'll I'll do it.
Volunteer." And my dad said, "Yeah, you
got to find out what he did. He used to
be such a loser. Now he's so successful,
right?" And so, when I went to go see
this guy, you know, I'm a hard worker,
so I worked really hard. And so, he took
me to lunch and he starts asking me
questions. I said, "I want to ask you
questions." And I said, "You know, my
father said, "You used to be such a
loser and now you're so successful.
How'd you change your life? I'm just a
kid." I wasn't trying to be funny or
mean, right? The guy you said your dad
said, "What?" He goes, "Well, it's
true." And he said, 'Well, what changed
my life is I went to a seminar. He goes,
"Yeah, I was, you know, three and a half
hours. His name is Jim Ran." He told me
the whole thing. And he's here in Orange
County. He's coming up to an event
pretty quick. I said, 'Could you get me
in? And he goes, "Yeah." I said, "Well,
how much is it?" He said, " $35? It' be
like $250 in today's money, right?" And
I said, " $35? I'm making $40 a week as
a janitor, right?" He go I said, "I I I
can't do that." He goes, "Well, then
just learn on your own experience and
waste a few decades." I said, 'You
really think it's that valuable?' He
goes, "No, you have to decide if it's
that valuable." And so I remember I I
wrestled with this like it was the
biggest decision of my life, a week's
pay. And and I went in and I heard this
man speak. He said some simple things
like, you know, for things to change,
you got to change. For things to get
better, you got to get better, right?
Interesting things. But at the end, I
was so excited. I went up to him and I
said, I want to come work for you. I
want to learn this. I want to be a part
of this. And he turned to me and said,
"Look, kid." He goes, "Uh, um, you know,
if you want to come work for me, you got
to go through all my programs." And I
said, "What does that mean?" And he
said, "Well, you got to this, this,
this." You know, it was like $1,200 for
just one of the programs for a weekend.
$1,200 is like $10,000 today to give an
idea. $12,000. I'm at the time sleeping
in my car, working as a janitor. My dad
left, my mom kicked him out. Mom's a
strong woman. And then she chased me out
with a knife. She wasn't going to kill
me, but I wasn't going back in that
place. And so I'm like, I I can't I
can't do this. And then said something,
he said, you know, decide. He goes, some
people have to survive, some people
succeed, decide which one you are, and
if you're ready by next Saturday, a week
from Saturday, he goes, um, I'm starting
a training and you can join it, but if
you if you don't have the money for it,
you won't be able to do it. And I
remember leaving thinking, this guy just
wants my money. He's such a jerk. And I
was so angry. But then in my head, I was
like, he's right. He's right. You know,
I've always gotten what I had to have. I
haven't had to have much. And so I
started going to banks. I walked in this
place, five banks turned down and I saw
this woman who looked persuadable and
sweet. And her name was uh Mrs.
Williams. This woman looks at me and she
goes, "The bank's not going to loan you
this money." And I'm she's like my fifth
bank. And uh I said, "You don't
understand." And I got all passionate.
She goes, "With this kind of focus and
energy, I think you can do something.
I'd like it to be something good." And
she goes, "Um,
I want to talk to the bank, but if the
bank will ling the money, I will. if you
look me in the eye and you swear to me
I'm never going to have to come find you
and you will take care of this. And I
jumped across, hugged her and kissed
her. She wasn't quite ready for that. I
went to Jim Ran seminar. I went to work
for him. And the first question when I
got finally got a private moment with
him that I asked was, I had four
fathers. They were all good men. They
all worked hard. How come we never had
any money and sometimes no food? I said,
I look over at the school teacher who
makes $35,000 a year, I think, in those
days. And then I see this hedge fund guy
who made a billion dollars in a year. I
said, 'Th that is so unjust.' And he
gave me a lesson that changed my whole
life. He said, Tony, he said, 'You
right. We're all equal as souls,
but we're not equal in the marketplace.
I said, what does that mean? He said,
well, let me ask you a question. Is it
possible someone to make twice as much
money in the same amount of time? Yeah.
Four times, 10 times, 100 times. Yeah,
people do it. How? He goes, you have to
become more valuable. He goes, "If you
go to work at McDonald's, you get this
tiny little income. It's not made to be
an ideal job. It's a first-time job.
Anyone can learn to do it in two hours."
And I've been obsessed about it ever
since. And I that changed everything in
my life. My whole life became how do I
add more value? And so today I have 121
companies and we're doing 12 billion
dollars in business across almost every
industry you can imagine that I'm a part
of. And I couldn't run one company in
the start and you know and make it
successful at 300,000 a year you know
for the revenue all that became in every
industry and I'm a lot of them I'm the
number one in the industry it's because
I'm obsessed with adding value and so I
think that piece is what's missing also
from our youth you're saying what do
they need to do they think I'm here to
get something no life is calling you
what are you going to give not not just
what you want to give but what people
need and so my focus is I give people
what they want. They want to make more
money. They want a better relationship.
But my goal is so I can give them what
they need, which is a life that has more
meaning. And that's one that goes beyond
yourself.
>> It's going to be a stressful period.
>> Yes.
>> To say the least.
>> Um I I think algorithms are actually
making our online experiences more
stressful. I think
>> 100%.
>> Because you know, they're designed to
retain our attention. And the best way
to retain our attention is probably
fear.
>> Yeah. And I think this with myself, I
find myself watching all these [__]
short form videos that are just like
they feel like they're at some level
frying something, depleting something in
me, but they're they're design it's
designed the algorithms to serve me up
the next one that's going to hold me or
scare me or whatever.
>> So in such a world where we're the
algorithms are probably going to, you
know, in the online world, especially
for younger kids, is going to really
>> it's going to is going to be better at
taking hold of us. What are the tools
that I need to deal with this stress and
this angst?
>> The first step to me would be take 15
minutes out of your day and go for
microlearning. Like decide you're going
to learn what matters, right? About
yourself, about AI. We tell people like
you already have habits, right? Most
people are scrolling a good portion of
the day. Give me 15 of those minutes and
let's do microlearning on something, a
new language to stimulate your brain,
philosophy, history, AI, something
pragmatic, something that's valuable.
It's just getting people to have some
habits that you know the 1% growth
metaphor right you know you know 27
times at the end of the year it's like
it's pretty simple all we have to do is
create a new direction if you try to do
it one giant step it's overwhelming for
people that the secret to life is
chunking think of it this way some
people never work out but they eat
easily so I'll say to them why don't you
work out and they'll give me all the
reasons and I'll say but you know you
know I'd have to I'd have to join a gym
and I said okay well tell me what's
entailed and they'll go I got to look up
where the gyms are and then I got to I
got to drive to each of the gyms and
then I got to you know I got to park the
car each place and find it and then I
got to get out and then you know get
hopefully get a pass and then they take
you on the tour and and then they will
sit you down and sell stuff to you and
they got to back in the car and you got
to drive things and then when you go do
it let's say you sign up then you go and
you got to check check in and take off
all your clothes and then they drop and
get wrinkled and then you go work out
and it's sweaty you got to wipe other
people's sweat off and then afterwards
you got to go do a shower and your hair
is messed up and your makeup you got
start all over and everything else and
you got to get the thing and you got to
back out. It's like it's too much work.
What does it take to eat? Well, you just
go. They chunk eating is one thing. They
chunk working out as 29,000 things,
right? So, if you chunk too big, try to
do everything in one bite. It's
overwhelming. And if you chunk it too
small, it's overwhelming. So, there's a
different size for different things. And
if we want to learn and grow, which is
what the secret is to your future is to
become a learning machine about what
matters. Like most people major in minor
things, they know more about some
actresses or actors love life um than
they do or their skin regimen than they
do about their own values and needs and
what makes them tick as a human being.
Today you can learn from the brightest,
smartest people on earth. They're
available. They're available by online.
They're available by by contracting or
coaching them. They're they're
everywhere. There isn't a limit anymore.
There's zero limit except you're
deciding to be a creator and not a
maintainer. He said you're deciding I'm
not just going to manage my life. I'm
going to design and create something cuz
the tools are available everywhere. And
so I'm just one of those.
>> I have a couple of questions based on
what you've just said. The first one
starting at the top was around you
talked about this idea of pattern
recognition uh utilization and creation.
The question I had from that section was
is there a way to get better at pattern
recognition?
>> Yeah. Well, first by understanding it's
the most important key.
>> Okay. Okay. So, it's like if I'm
fearful, what's the pattern I'm missing
here? What's something that could give
me some history to understand that this
isn't random? Like, you know, people
say, "I overeat. I overdrink. I I get
really angry at every you don't overread
every moment. You don't smoke every
moment." What are the triggers that you
use
>> and do you do you recommend people
write? How do they how do they raise
their self-awareness enough to start
spotting these patterns?
>> I believe in diaries. You call it diary.
I call it journals. I believe in
journalism to be able to do that to
guide yourself. But yes, but it's more
than that. You have to you have to not
only make the distinction, but you also
have to have a different state to it.
For example, let's say um let's say uh I
say to you, I know I know um I need to
lose weight. Um I'm going to do it. I'm
going to go on a diet. Um I'm going to
work out. Am I going to do it?
[laughter]
>> No. Because I'm not in the state to do
it. Now, most people are trying to
figure out what to do. And there's
nothing wrong with that. But it's the
wrong sequence because when you think
about what to do, if you've never done
it before, you feel uncertain, you don't
follow through. If you have done it
before, but you don't feel strong
enough, you're not going to follow
through. So, I tell people, if you want
a breakthrough, it's three things.
Strategy, story, state. Most people, if
they want to have a breakthrough, they
want to change their body, you want to
change their life, they look for how to
do it. And that's natural, but it's the
absolute wrong order. And if you do
things in the wrong order, it's like
having the numbers to a phone for
someone and you dial the wrong order,
you don't reach somebody. Or the vault,
right? You got the right numbers the
wrong order, vault doesn't open. Why are
so many people overweight in this
country? Like 60% of the population is
overweight. How is that possible? Is it
because what it takes to be fit and
strong is so incredibly complex? No.
Only the 1% knows. No. It's super
expensive. No, you have to work not to
know what to do. So that the how is not
the problem. So I say strategy story
state that's how you have a
breakthrough. Yes, I'm a strategist. The
right strategy can save you 10 years. I
love that. It's fun. But if I start with
a strategy, you'll listen and go, "Yeah,
that's cool." And you won't do it. The
real problem is the story you have. The
story you have is I've tried everything.
>> The story you have, nothing works. The
story has all the good ones are gone and
I'm gay and they're not or they're gay
and I'm not. It's the story is the
belief you've told yourself over and
over because belief is the invisible
force that controls everything in your
life. And when you have a belief that
you've honed because you're fearful and
you've never done this before, then I
can show you exactly how to do it and
you'll say, "It doesn't work. I've tried
that." Yeah. How many times? How hard?
How many minutes? Right? But what's
behind the story is your state. Your
mental emotional state. If I said to
you, I am going to lose 12 pounds in the
next 6 weeks. There is non-negotiable.
Here's why I do this and this and this
and this. Do you think I'm going to do
it?
>> Yes.
>> You bet your ass I'm going to do it.
Right. You can feel the state.
>> Yeah.
>> So, people are usually trying to figure
out how to do something and they got a
story about it when what they need first
is the state. When you go in the right
state, have you had this happen where
you get in a flow and and something
comes through? You're hitting a tennis
ball or you're doing or you're speaking
and at the end of you're like, "That was
pretty awesome. I did that. How'd I do?
I don't know. That [__] just flowed.
That was pretty awesome, right? You're
in a peak state. I put people in a peak
state while they're doing the things
we're talking about.
>> So, what do you do right before you come
out on stage? And what can anyone
listening at home do before the big
meeting, the big moment in their life or
really like on a daily basis to
configure our state?
>> The first thing I do, my little daily
routine is I go out, I use the jacuzzi
for a moment to open my body up and
everything else and then I go on the
cold plunge. And I've been doing that
for 18 years now. Everybody talks about
it, but I go into that cold plunge. And
the secret though is I don't negotiate
with myself. I go on the cold plunge for
both the health purposes because it
floods your body, right? Completely. But
the the real value is is the mental
discipline of I don't go, okay, I'm
ready. And I don't get in one just lie
lying here. I dunk under. I jump in. Not
one that goes above my head. I go under
under the water. I dive into it. Right?
And I don't stand there. I don't stand
there and go, "Oh, I feel cold right
now." or another minute or like I've
trained my brain when I say go, we go.
And I've done that for decades. And so
I'm not I'm not in the place when I say
go somewhere else, my brain obeys. I'm
not I don't have these stories in my
head back and forth trying to have a
conversation with myself, trying to
convince myself to do something I've
decided, right? So decision point is
everything. So I've trained myself to do
it, but also it produces a massive
change. It is not comfortable. I don't
think there's been a morning in my life
that I've looked forward to doing it,
but it changes you. So, that's one
thing. The thing I do before I go on
stage, I have a routine of how I shift
my body. I have a I have a prayer that I
do, which is use me, Lord, and I picture
being to serve as many human people as
human beings as possible. I see them not
only where they are now, I see where
they're going to be by the end of what
I'm done. And then I make this radical
shift in my body. I make these moves and
explosive breath. And then I storm out
there. And then I've I've taken myself
imagine on a zero to 10 to a 20 of
intensity. So now I can drop down to a
nine feels like I'm very relaxed and but
I've got a lot more gears in me than you
know. And that's how I can project to
the guy at the top of the stadium and
hold them for 12 hours, you know, who
wouldn't sit for a three-hour movie
someone spent $300 million on.
>> And do you think a lot about your diet
and nutrition?
>> I'm Yeah, I'm totally committed to that.
And I also train like a crazy person and
I do hyperbaric oxygen. And I I you name
it. I'm a I'm a biohacker. Um and I'm
committed to that. I have a whole
company that does it for people as well.
So I've always done that because I've
had to to perform. And I'm 66 going to
produce results that, you know, were
designed by a 25-year-old, right? But
I'm stronger today than I was then. I
got more aerobic capacity. I've got more
muscle capacity. So I mean, there's a
limit, but I haven't found it yet.
>> If you follow me, you've probably heard
me talk about hiring more so than
anything else. So, you probably see me
on Behind the Diary, which is our other
YouTube channel, talking about how
obsessed I am with the hiring process.
And this really brings me to a
recommendation I'd love to give you,
which is to check out our sponsor,
LinkedIn, if you're having hiring
difficulties. Their new AI assistant
filters out applications for you based
on the criteria you've set for that
specific job, surfacing only the best
matches. That way, you're not left
having to hunt through a mountain of
different rums. It'll recommend 25
candidates daily who fit what you're
looking for that you can then invite to
apply for the role. LinkedIn is where we
go to find the long-term A players that
I have in my team. In fact, employees
hired through LinkedIn are 30% more
likely to stick around for at least a
year compared to those hired through
other job networks. Hire right the first
time by posting your job for free at
linkedin.com/doac.
Then use the promotion feature to access
LinkedIn jobs new AI assistant. That's
linkedin.comdoac
terms and conditions apply. In a world
of um in a world of challenging meaning
where [clears throat] a lot of a lot of
my viewers are struggling with meaning,
one of the things I've noticed is that
it appears especially with young men who
you talked about earlier. They it
appears that more and more of them are
turning to religion and you mentioned
your your faith in God there. It's a
really interesting phenomenon for me
that I've observed in my own life. I've
talked about this a few times. Um
certain friends of mine who were very
individualistic. They were living the
dream in any way that you might define
it, you know. Yeah. They had money, they
had freedom, they had no boss, no
dependence, no no partner. And suddenly
you see their life turn into what looks
like depression, a form of depression.
>> Yeah.
>> An absence of meaning in their lives.
And I I I I wanted just to throw this
out there because we we are in a society
that's um I think increasingly
encouraging independence.
>> Yes.
>> And there's upsides to independence, of
course. We all understand those. I
wondered if there's a sort of a
double-edged sword here when we're we're
you kind of said it earlier about making
the world more about just me me and I.
And in a world of abundance, I imagine
many more people are going to choose to
make it about I I I cuz they can I could
put a headset on theoretically never
leave my house. Someone could literally
put a robot puts the food in my mouth. I
could have some sex robot that just gets
me off. Money comes in my account by
UBI. the reason your friends got
depressed. I've had this happen. I've
seen this as well. I've, you know, most
of my friends are older than I am.
Usually, for some reason, I gravitated
to to men that were 18, 20 years my
senior who were brilliant and learning
from them and seeing where they're going
in their life and so forth. But I watch
some of them like sell their company and
make a billion two
>> and then they were happy for like a
month maybe and they'd call me, let's go
do this, go do that. And, you know, try
to go to somebody. I got, you know, I
got a lot of companies, got a lot got a
lot of kids, I got a lot of things,
right? And it's like, and eventually
they all want to get back in the game
because we have six human needs.
Certainty,
uncertainty, because think about this.
If you were certain every moment of your
life, you know what someone's going to
say, and I'm sure you've had this
somewhat. You know what they're going to
say before they're going to say it. But
if you knew what someone's going to say
before they're going to say, you know
what's going to happen before it's going
to happen every moment of every day. In
the beginning, it'd be cool. But after a
while, what would you feel?
>> Bored.
>> Out of your mind. Bored.
>> So God in her infinite wisdom gave us
uncertainty. We need variety. We need
surprise. So I ask people, you got a
stadium, 15,000 people, and I say, "How
many you love surprises?" And everybody
raised their hand, "Yay!" And I go,
"Bullshit. You love the surprises you
want." The surprises you don't want, you
call problems, but we need those, too.
Right? Third need is significance. They
need to feel unique. You need to feel
special. The need to feel important. Who
do you think has that need?
>> All of us.
>> Everyone.
>> Yeah.
>> Now, some people like Donald Trump is
pretty obvious, right? And some people
though it's like I don't want
significance. I don't want to be I don't
want to be special. That's only because
they feel if they get special they get
attacked.
>> Right? Every some people do it by
earrings. Some people buy tattoos in
certain areas. Some by knowing bot box
scores about a sport more than anybody
else. Some people buy their art. Some
people the way they dress. Some people
buy their money. Some people be more
generous. Everyone finds a way. Okay.
However, some people do it through
violence.
>> Okay. So let me give you another seed.
>> Why has violence always been with us? If
I feel I'm insignificant, and this is,
by the way, even more powerful in most
men's cases because the nature of
testosterone, right? Testosterone is
about significance. It's about being
dominant, right? So, if I'm uh I'm in a
community and I'm driving by or I'm
walking by this community and it's a
tough community, a tough environment,
somebody comes up, puts a gun to my
head. I've never met him in my life.
Why? Well, first of all, how certain do
you think that person is you're going to
respond when they put a gun to your
head? Before you may not have paid
attention to them, but you're going to
pay attention now. How significant are
they in your life on a 0 to10 scale with
that gun to your head? They're the most
significant thing on earth. And by the
way, every time it's a little different.
They give variety. Anytime you meet a
belief, an emotion, or a behavior meets
at least three of these six needs, you
will become addicted to that thought,
that feeling, or that behavior. It could
be a positive one or a negative one, but
you will become addicted to it. So
violence connects those three,
but you can also get significance by
tearing other people down. So why do we
have so many warriors in their little
house, you know, doing their little
virtual signaling, doing what they're
doing, cuz they've never done anything
with their life. And it used to be I'd
have to confront you. Now I don't
confront you who don't even know who I
am. I can say all this terrible [__] and
I'm sitting my little place and make my
seal feel significant because I make you
smaller, I'm bigger. It's why social
media is so terrible. There's great
things in social media. That's what's so
terrible about it. It's like people now
can meet their need for significance
without much effort. No consequence. You
come and say this directly to me, you're
going to pay a price of some sort,
right? That's no longer there. Now,
fourth need, connection and love.
Everybody wants love. Most people settle
for connection because they've had love
at one point. It was so painful when it
ended. They decided to settle for
connection. How can you get it? You can
get it by going for a run and feeling
connected to God of the universe,
nature. You can get it by prayer. You
can get it by uh being with some
friends. You can get it by making love.
You can get it by getting a dog. If
nothing else, get a dog. Don't get a
cat. Cats leave. But you know, dogs, you
leave for 2 minutes. It's like you've
been gone for 6 months. They'll make you
feel very loved. There's a million ways
to feel connection and love. Some are
positive, some are negative. Some people
get connected by their problems. They're
always comparing problems. You ever seen
two people comparing? But I have this.
Well, you think that's bad. Let me tell
you my they're arguing over significance
and they're connecting through their
problems. Right? So the biggest drug on
earth is not cocaine. It's not fentanyl.
It's not dope. It's problems. Cuz the
deepest fear everybody has is they're
not enough. And our deeper fear is if
we're not enough, we won't be loved.
I've never met a human being. I've
worked with kings, queens, winners of
everything you can imagine, academy
awards, scientists.
There's some point in which you might
feel for someone you care about most
that you're not smart enough, young
enough, old enough, pretty enough, funny
enough, rich enough, playful enough,
something enough. And it is the worst
feeling on earth. To feel like you are
unloved and worthless is internal death.
So people come up with a story, it's
just cuz I have, you know, um I have
this dyslexia, that's why. Or it's cuz I
was raped. And maybe they really were
raped. It's I'd like to kill the guy
that hurt them. But that's not why
they're feeling what they're feeling
right now. It's because they're fearful.
And so if you have a big problem, that's
why I'm not where I want to be. It's not
that I'm not enough and not worthy of
love. And so people use problems as a
way to connect. Now these first four
needs, certainty, uncertainty, you can
see how they'd have a conflict. But have
you ever rented a movie you've already
watched?
>> Yeah.
>> Get a life.
I have too. Why would we do that? Cuz
we're certain it's good, but it's been
long enough that we hope it's been
there's a variety. We won't remember it
all. Have a variety once again. Yeah.
>> So you can meet multiple needs through
the same task potentially. But
certainty, uncertainty, significance.
Here you are in Hollywood. Why do people
come to Hollywood?
>> Be famous and
>> be famous, right? They don't know what
that really is. If they did, some of
them would move away from it. But
significance is what they're looking
for. But what they really want is love.
That's what everybody wants.
>> But you know what the problem is? They
think if they're significant, everyone's
going to love them. And I get these
clients without mentioning any names,
the biggest names in Hollywood, the
biggest names in sports. And you know
what their number one thing is? They're
angry. Why are they angry? Because they
thought if I'm significant, everybody
love me. And now they go, people rip me
online. They interrupt me with my family
trying to have dinner. They don't give a
[__] about me. They just want a picture.
They just want this. And if I don't do
it, they write that about me.
>> They care about themselves.
>> They care about themselves. And so what
happened is I thought by being
significant, I would be loved. And now
I'm super significant and I'm not loved.
I'm attacked.
Because the more you try and push your
significance on someone, the less
significant they make you. If you love
someone, there's nothing more
significant than that. True love, not a
trade, not I'll love you if you give me
something. Genuine love. And if that
happens, you become significant in
people's lives. But that's the number
one challenge in this community. So
significance is love attack. If you're
significant, you're the individual. But
I need to be connected. Well, if I'm so
connected, who am I? And that's the
pull. The secret to it all are the final
two needs. These are the spiritual
needs. Not religious, but spiritual. And
that is we all must grow. When you grow,
you feel alive. And if you don't grow,
you start to die inside. And this isn't
my rule. Everything in the universe
grows or dies. As you well know, this is
the law of the universe. If your
relationship's not growing, it's dying.
Don't [__] yourself. If your
business is not growing, you're a
businessman. You know it is not growing.
It is dying. You better do something
now. Right? But we grow so we have
something finally to give which is where
meaning comes in life. When I grow I
have something more to give. And if I
can give that to someone then my life is
more meaningful than just the pleasure
of I have the machine that you know
makes me feel pleasure in certain parts
of my body and feeds me and all the
things you talked about. If you went to
Vegas and you pull down that you know
that little jukebox thing and you get
boom boom boom bars bars bars what's
your reaction?
>> Amazing.
>> Amazing. Wow, this is And you pull it a
second time and you get it again.
>> Amazing.
>> And you do a third time and you get it
again.
>> Less amazing. [laughter]
>> And now you do a 100 times.
>> Yeah. Less amazing.
>> And now what you have is a job. You do
this and you got a predictable outcome.
The fact that you don't know what the
outcome is that that's the jackpot in it
that gets someone hooked on anything.
That's what makes it significant because
it's scarce. Right? So when you do this,
if I said to you, Osama bin Laden, what
would you say his top need driving
force? Was it certainty? Was it variety?
Was it significance? Was it love? Was it
growth or contribution?
>> I'd say probably significance
>> 100%. He was one of I forgot the number.
27 children, right? Literally, he was 27
children. He was a nobody. He took his
dad's money. He was not very religious
and he went to Afghanistan and he used
his money and became significant not by
shooting people. He provided resources
and then all of a sudden his entire life
changed. How do you know? The most
significant thing is he sent other
people to die.
>> He didn't go to die. He sent other
people. Now his number one drive is
significance and his way of doing it was
get other people to die. On that same
day in 9/11, there were men and women in
the fire department, police department
who went into those buildings knowing it
a good chance they would die to save a
stranger.
Also driven by significance but with
different rules.
If I die a hero, my life is meaningful.
And that's a meaningful life.
So people can even have the same need
structure, but their beliefs about how
to meet those needs are the most
important thing. And the needs of
connection and love, growth, and
contribution have no downside. Certainty
make if you have certainty is your
number one thing, you're always trying
to keep life the same way, and you're
going to be stressed out. Especially
with AI, you're going to be really
stressed out. If you're a variety
person, you can have a lot of fun, but
eventually not much variety. The life
you described for all these people now,
they have the money, they have the sex,
they have this, they have that, they
have the woman, they have the notoriety,
they have the Academy Award. It all gets
old because if we're not growing, it
doesn't matter. How many people do you
know that were famous, who were rich,
who had supposedly everything people
want and took their own life? Why' they
take their life? They stopped growing
and stopped having a sense of meaning by
giving. You could show I can show you
example after example of people. So
these need structures in the new world
have to be met. We can meet certainty
right now very easily by going online
and controlling our communication.
That's why people text. That's much
easier than communicating back and forth
with someone, right? We can get variety
by going online so easily. Now we can
get significance, tear other people down
or work on something significant. We
think right AI explore the world. We can
get a sense of connection through people
online or through a robot or these days
people have an AI and they talk to it
like it's their boyfriend or girlfriend
because it totally affirms them. They
say something idiotic and they tell you
you're so smart, right? Get better,
right? But you're missing growing and
contributing. If you're missing growing,
contributing, you will not feel
fulfilled. you as a person, if I've read
your books correctly, and I didn't read
them all, but I've had pieces of it.
Probably the best lesson you got early
in life was
there's the science of achievement.
There's the art of fulfillment. They're
two different skills. If you want an
extraordinary life, you need both. You
go to the east, they're really great
about fulfillment. They can live in
poverty and feel totally happy and
connected to God or the universe. You
come here and and people can have an
incredible external life, but their
internal life often not so nice. They
get really pissed off because they
didn't get their special sauce on their
burger, right? It's a different world. I
believe you can merge those two. How?
You master the science of achievement.
There are rules to achieve. As you well
know, you wrote a whole book with 33
rules in it. Me, too. Right? So, I know
those rules. I know. I wrote books on
finance. Three of them. I want an
answer. Is it still possible to win the
financial game? Because so many young
people think it can't be done. So, I
interviewed 50 of the greatest financial
people alive today. All started with
nothing. All billionaires. Nobody from
the Lucky Sperm Club. They all did it on
their own. Ray Dalio, Carl Icon, Warren
Buffett, all of them. And guess what I
found? They're all different, but I'm a
modeler. I found the strategies that are
common between them and I applied them.
I taught other people, wrote the books,
but I applied them myself. And that's
how my businesses and my life grew
geometrically. I modeled, I didn't have
to learn on my own experience. You
follow?
>> I've got to ask you some questions on
those two points. So on these six needs,
because I also want to ask you about the
the 50 rich people that you've you've
interviewed for the books, but on those
six needs, when you look at someone like
me and you look at the broad world that
I'm heading towards as a 30 30-year-old
man, what what configuration of these
needs?
Well, I'll tell you what creates all the
pain first.
>> Okay, please.
>> So if I go to a room and I'll say I I
explain these needs like I have I know
this is kind of lecture here. I didn't
mean to be that, but I just want to
share because I'm so passionate about
it. And I'll get people to understand
what they are. And then I ask them, I
want you to write down what you think
your top two needs have been. Not in
what you want, but in the way you've
been living. Because people might want
love, but they think they have to be
significant before they can get it. Or
they might want love, but they want
certainty that love never go away. You
follow me? And so that modifies things.
And I'll say, "So the way you've lived,
the way you've lived, what would have
been the top two?" And then I say, I
want you to write a paragraph about
what's the downside of having that one
so high on your list. And it's amazing.
So then I say, now write what you think
your list top two should be to go to the
next level of your life. Okay. Let's how
you do that. What do you think your top
two means? [laughter] I see you doing it
already, which I love. I love how active
you are. So what would you say your top
two have been up until now?
>> I think if I'm being completely honest.
>> Yes. And now, by the way, [laughter] by
the way, I I want to thank you because I
watched several of your pieces and you
are you're not bullshitting about good.
>> There's just no I'm going to die
someday. So, there's no even if being
honest makes me look bad. It just [__]
who cares. My of course, like
significance, of course, especially from
where I, you know, where I came from.
>> That was the big problem was, you know,
being different and and not in a good
way. That's right. And then I would say
um
interestingly it feels like uncertainty
and significance are really really high
for me because
>> Yes. Yes.
>> I've for some reason I have a very a
huge appetite for uncertainty.
>> Yeah. Well,
you're wired that way in a beautiful
way. It also leads to learning for you.
That's one of your vehicles for
learning, is it not?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Dropping out of school, stopping going
to school when I was younger, dropping
out of university.
>> Um quitting jobs where you know I
shouldn't have quit them after a month.
Which by the way, if certainty was your
top need, would you have done that?
>> No.
>> No. Completely. So you understand this.
These are I'm talking about the six
controlling forces of your life. There's
a million stories about your life, but
there's only six reasons you do
anything.
>> Yeah.
>> You have all these stories with reasons.
So what would you say would be the
downside of that? There would have been
upsides, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Great. Yeah.
>> We're sitting here because of the
upsides. Your desire for significance
made you look for significant ideas,
significant application, succeed in
business. The downsides of wanting
significance is
>> at the at the top, not cuz it's
valuable. Significance is valuable
period. Everyone should want it. But
it's the sequence. So if it's the top of
your list, what's the downside?
>> For me, it costs me connection and love
and all these and some of these other
opportunities.
>> That's correct. Which is what you really
want underneath it all?
>> Yeah.
>> Your desire for significance really came
from the fact that you were not loved
and connected by people. People judge
you the color of your skin. They put you
in a community where you were different.
you were outside the so it's like
>> I'll show them
>> right which by the way was a very
healthy response right but now at this
stage of your life
>> this is the gift that you have now at
this stage of your life right you're
entering this second season right
>> now you don't have to be driven by that
anymore [laughter]
>> you already are significant like what
more are you going to do that's not
significant I'm sure you'll find more
significant things to do but you've done
so many significant things you've helped
millions of people I'm sure through your
insights your elements you've written
books you've built businesses and you're
only 33 years old. That's pretty effing
awesome, right? So, now you get the
leisure of be able to sit back and say,
now with a greater level of
consciousness, what would ideally be my
top two? What would you say your top two
need to be to have the next level of
your life to go to the next level for
you?
>> It was really easy for me to answer this
question. Um, connection and love and
the the need to grow and give.
>> Yes. Yes. Yeah. Well, those are two
different ones. Contribution. Growth and
contribution. Of of those two, which one
do you think is even more important for
you?
>> Oh, god. of those two.
>> Yeah. It's hard because one you can see
as a vehicle to the other. Exactly. I
understand that. But I'm asking a
different question. I'm saying which is
more important to feel experience.
>> It would be contribution.
>> Yes. So for you, you're saying love and
contribution.
>> I'm saying love and contribution.
>> In what order?
>> Love first and then contribution.
>> It's a good choice. [laughter]
>> I tried in my head. I tried the other
way around and I thought no. It's almost
that like monks have said to me many
years ago that you need to fill up your
cup so you have something to pour out
for others.
>> Yes. And that's what I was thinking of.
I was thinking it doesn't work the other
way around.
>> That was that was a wise wise choice.
Most people wouldn't make that choice. I
for most of my life was contribution
first and then love. It was my way of
earning love.
>> And so like I'd be on stage for 13 hours
and this is before people had phones and
everybody wants to sign something and
give me a hug. I work my guts out and
then that was my take it in time. So I'd
be there finish at 1:30 or 2 in the
morning and I'd be there till 3:30 till
every person had an autograph, got, you
know, their hug and everything else. Now
it's pictures a lot faster. But that was
my life. I met my wife, Sage. Changed my
entire life. She didn't care that I was
Tony Robbins. She just loved me. And all
of a sudden, I never thought 12,000,
15,000, 20,000 people could of love
pouring out. You could compare, one
person compare, but way beyond that. So
now I finish it. When I give my guts, I
go to 1 in the morning, but then I get
up and I leave, right? you know, I take
pictures in the middle of the day, but
then I leave at that time and I go and
be with my wife and it switched to where
love was there. Because think about
this, if contribution is first, and this
is what a lot of people do, then it's a
way to protect yourself from feeling
rejected because if I I'm always giving
to you truly generously over beyond what
you can imagine and then you treat me
like [__] Well, then you're clearly the
problem, right? I don't have to think
I'm not enough.
>> So, but the more honest way is love.
Because if it's love first, now I'm
giving because I want to, not cuz I have
to. Does that make sense? So tell me how
you think that would change your life if
you made love and contribution your top
two and the way you actually live
because you already value love and
contribution. But if they were the
highest priority, how would it shift
your life for the better in your mind?
>> I feel like I would be significantly
less stressed.
>> You are correct. [laughter] You are
absolutely correct. So when I ask the
audience this, I have them write down
and I've got 15,000 people and I'll say,
"Okay, how many have certainty on your
list?" and they've come to an event that
has a firewalk, right? And you get like
50 60% of the rooms on the top in their
top two of their list, right? Because
it's the in our culture, it's still the
most important one. It's the
foundational. It's the one that's going
to have the biggest problem with AI
because they want things to stay the
same and life isn't. The only thing is
for certain is change. And now rapid
change, like geometrically rapid change.
Okay. Variety, small number,
significance through the roof. Social
media has made significance
disproportionate in our culture and it's
why people are so unhappy. You used to
maybe compare most yourself to your
neighbors or your friends. Now you
compare yourself to a billionaires of
which there's only 3,000, right? And so
you're like, "My life's not that great
anymore." Or you compare it to pictures
that have been doctorred. I have a
friend of mine owns a gym and he says,
"Tony, you can't believe it. Women and
men come in here who are influencers.
They lay everything out and then they do
their video and they never work out.
They're 27 years old. They don't have to
work out for [__] I mean, it's like
they do a minimum workout. They got
jeans. They're just fine. They don't
even do the workout. It's all pictures.
It's all [__] right? You know, he
goes, "It makes me so mad because, you
know, real people there working hard to
make something happen." So, that's why
people get so women especially depressed
comparing themselves to images that are
not even real, right? It's totally
absurd. So, when I deal with the
audience though, certainty and
significance is 80% of the room, right?
There's growth people, contribution
people, but that's the dominant force
because of our cultural conditioning.
And because certainty is basically
survival tool then I've asked them to do
what you did and I say okay tell me I
don't tell them anything like I didn't
tell you anything and then I say okay
who has certainty on their list now and
in a room of 15,000 people 12,000 people
there might be like five. Okay, there's
five people that really like pain. So I
point that out to them and they look at
me and then I go okay how many got you
know variety? It'll be more variety. How
many got significance? the number
plummets just like it did with you.
People I didn't tell them anything.
Their own intelligence knows this,
right?
>> How many got love through the roof,
right? Contribution through the roof.
Growth through the roof. Those are the
ones that expand. And then we show
people how to condition that though
because it's one thing to know it. It's
another thing to start training it in
your body to make those priorities
happen in your life. Right? Just like
any other habit, lurking out or anything
else, you have to build the neurology of
that. You have to practice putting
yourself in those states over and over
again where you make the value based on
love or you make the value based on
contribution. See before you do
something to be significant and you miss
out on some of the love. Now love is
probably always what you wanted. That's
why you could make that decision so
quickly, right? But now I'm going to go
for that first, not this securitous
route. By the way, you will still be
significant. You'll be loving first and
you'll be contributing and that will
make you significant. Is it really
possible to change like that that
deeply?
>> No, not at all. I've [laughter] never
been able to do that in
>> No, no, my 49th year. I'm just I've
never seen that happen.
>> No, I was I was thinking really really
deeply about what you were saying and I
was thinking there will be some people
that are listening and I think there was
maybe a part of me my conscious that's
like
because I because that's a journey I've
never gone on before. I've never shifted
from the
>> Well, you're not going to do it by
discussion. You have to have leverage.
>> What is that? Leverage is uh you have to
have something you value more than your
present way of doing things. Leverage
can be pain or pleasure, right? So
>> like my fiance,
>> your fiance, you got understand how you
got to LA [laughter] has a little
leverage, right? Her love, her
happiness, her joy. Oh, that's
beautiful.
>> That's a photo.
>> My girl,
>> you and Sage.
>> That's awesome. You're good at putting
people in state with her pictures.
That's impressive.
>> That's a beautiful photo.
>> Yeah, I love her so much. And we've been
together 25 years. I love her more today
than ever before. She is a force in
nature, this woman. Really, really
great. But yes, she's leverage in my
life. My my my youngest daughter's
massive leverage, you know, four and a
half years old. It's beautiful. But I'll
give you an example. I had I worked with
a woman one time on stage and she was a
colon therapist and uh vegan and you
know, so but she was always sick cuz
she's so stressed all the time trying to
be perfect at everything. There's just
constriction in her body, right? And um
and the level stress was just
ridiculous, right? So I was trying to
get her to see have some other options
about what to do to without boring the
whole story. I'm looking for leverage
always. That's how you get someone to
make a change. You got to get make
change a must, not a should. Not me
making it to you. If I put a gun to your
head, that's leverage. But some people
would rather die than bend to your will.
You have to find out what moves that
person. It's unique for everyone, not
what motivates them. I hate the word
motivation. I've never used it. I want
to know your drives. Look, if you're
fat, you're motivated to eat. I want to
know what's underneath. I want to know
what the drives are. So this woman, I'm
trying to help her make changes. And I
show her these things and see the
consequences. And she wouldn't change.
Wouldn't change. So finally I I said,
"Man, I got to push this lady." I was
like, I said, "How long I wouldn't tell
her this. I asked I said, "How long
would a person with a level of stress
with these things you're doing and these
ailments, how long will a person like
that live if they don't change?"
And she paused and she thought and she
said,
"Probably to 35." "How old are you?"
"32."
So, okay, she's going to change now. I
mean, she's going to do it, right?
That's the leverage. She's got to
change. But I can't change. I just
can't. It's just how my life is.
I said, "Well,"
I said, "This session is on videotape,
you know."
And I said,
"How do you think your daughter's going
to feel when she's carrying your coffin
and she knows that you knew you could
shift this and you didn't? This is
pretty intense. I mean, she thinks she's
going to die. If she doesn't do it, she
probably could." So, I'm thinking out
big leverage, right? She goes, "I know
that's horrible, but I can't change."
And part of my head, I'm like, "Holy
[__] she's not going to change here.
What the hell is going to change her?"
And then I said to her, I said, "Yeah,
what if her new mother is a meat eater?"
And she exploded on stage. That is not
happening. I [laughter] will not make
this happen. I mean, she went berserk.
And she goes, "Fine, I'm changing this
now." Like, there is always leverage.
There is something that will make change
a must and not a should. Change is never
a matter of ability. It's always a
matter of strong enough reasons of
motive. If you got strong enough
reasons, you can do just about anything.
But if you have weak reasons, you're not
going to do anything. So the fact that
you understand this is our discussion.
In an event, you be in a rather a rather
peak state and I take you through a
process of consequence where you will
envision what the consequences are and
then you can make that shift and you
still got to condition it. This specific
change is the hardest one.
>> I think a lot of people might say I was
thinking forward as life events to come
and becoming a father.
>> Yes. Yes, it's often
>> that will do that will absolutely shift
a lot of people. Becoming a father,
getting married, falling in love. There
are certain events. Losing people will
make you re-evaluate things. Hitting a
birthday, you know, you're 33. When you
hit your 40th birthday, I'm sure you
don't think it'll be any different. I
remember people telling me that, but you
tend to re-evaluate for some weird
reason in our culture. And after 40,
usually a fiveyear or
50 year, 60 year. It's just part of the
way we look at life. It's there's a
process you go through and there will be
different things that trigger you. But
when you want a real lasting change, you
have to change the driving force. When
we change these, it's changing your
values. So again, like think about how
your brain is a predictor and it's
trying to close the gap between what
it's predicting what reality is. When
it's not working, it looks for an
answer. When you get to the point where
your old strategy doesn't work enough
and you have enough pain, you will
search for something new. And if at that
time we can give you something that
actually works, you'll grab it. It's
like if you're drowning in a sea of
confusion and I throw you a life raft,
you're not going to go, I don't like the
color. You know, you're going to grab a
hold and it comes into your unconscious.
And the other last thing I'd say about
that is it's also about going beyond
your conscious mind. Right? You're if
you ever try to do something and then
sabotage yourself, it's consciously you
wanted one thing, subconsciously
another. I believe all lasting change
happens in an altered state. When I say
an altered state, you could call it
hypnosis. I tell people I'm a
dehypnotist. Most people walk around in
hypnosis. People tell me like, "You
can't hypnotize me." And they're they're
in a hypnotized state in that moment. Do
you ever drive your car and then
something catch your attention and you
stay focused on too long and all a
sudden you realize, "Holy [__] who's
been driving the car?" You ever have?
That was a That was a hypnosis state.
Hypnosis just means you're inside, not
outside most of the time. And in a
hypnotic state, what goes in goes in
deeper than just in a consciousness
state. That's why I like doing
storytelling. You know, I'm I'm my wife
and I are there's certain things in life
that just shouldn't happen that are
inhuman and trafficking is one of them.
And we had a friend that child was taken
and trafficked and it was the most
brutal thing. And so I got us involved
and so now we've we've contributed to
72,000 children being saved. I've gone
out on some of these undercover with
scars on my face and elements. It's most
brutal thing you can possibly imagine.
But I tell you this because when you
when you witness certain things in life
that are so intense,
they alter you. They change you. They
change what you value. They change what
what you make important in your life.
And so what I say to people, you want
your life to keep growing. Keep putting
yourself in new environments. Keep
getting around things you're not used to
and let something hit you. You know,
people don't know their passions cuz
they keep going doing the same things.
It's like get around where it's better
and see what hits you and something's
going to strike you. Something's going
to wake you up. Something is going to
make you feel more, desire more, want to
give something to life as opposed to
just live your life because the life you
describe to those people is predictable.
You get familiarized. Even pain, I mean,
you look at people in Ashwitz, you know,
um, Man's Search for Meaning is one of
my favorite books. Have you read it?
>> Victor Frank.
>> Yeah. And I I bought the rights of
making the movie, right? Oh, really?
>> Oh, the reason I was telling you about
the the Finding the Kids is I made The
Sound of Freedom. Did you see it?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. So, and we beat Disney that week
and people thought that it would never
happen, right? But that movie changed
people radically, woke them up, brought
resources to the table, has created real
shift. Man's search to meaning I think
can do that as well. But in those
places, they get habituated to the pain.
You get habituated pain or pleasure.
That's why we've got to grow. And when
we grow, we get that life cycle. We feel
more alive and then we got something to
share. And then we feel meaning and then
it's like a virtuous cycle and life gets
better and better.
>> Last month I told you about our sponsor
Function Health and their team who've
developed a way of giving you a full 360
view of what's going on inside your
body. They offer over 100 advanced lab
tests covering everything from hormones,
toxins, inflammation, heart health,
stress, and so much more. So Jack, who
started this show with me, got his first
blood draw done a couple of weeks ago.
So I thought I'd let him tell you a
little bit more about his experience.
This test really opened my eyes to
personally what I should be doing with
my health. I hear a lot of information
in this podcast. I sit in every single
recording. So to know how I can relate
each one to me personally is super
valuable. You sign up and you schedule
your tests and once you're done you get
a little report like the one I have
here. I can see my inrange results, my
out of range results, and there's a
little AI function too. So if I have any
questions about my out of range results,
I can just go in there and ask it any
question I want. And these tests are
backed by doctors and thousands of hours
of research. You get an annual draw done
and a mid-year follow-up. So, if you
want to learn more, head over to
functionhealth.com/doac
where you can sign up for a $365 a year.
I'll put the link in the description
below. It is just $1 a day for your
health. You know, every once in a while
you come across a product that has such
a huge impact on your life that you'd
probably describe as a gamecher. And I
would say for about 35 to 40% of my
team, they would currently describe this
product that I have in front of me
called Ketone IQ, which you can get at
ketone.com
as a game changer. But the reason I
became a co-owner of this company and
the reason why they they now are a
sponsor of this podcast is because one
day when I came to work, there was a box
of this stuff sat on my desk. I had no
idea what it was. Lily and my team says
that this company have been in touch. So
I went upstairs, tried it, and quite
frankly, the rest is history. in terms
of my focus, my energy levels, how I
feel, how I work, how productive I am.
Game changer. So, if you want to give it
a try, visit ketone.com/stephven
for 30% off. You'll also get a free gift
with your second shipment. And now you
can find Keton IQ at Target stores
across the United States where your
first shot is completely free of charge.
I was stunned at how big your business
empire is. You know, even as you're
speaking there, you're talking about
movies that I've watched that I had no
idea that you're involved in. And you're
talking about all these other incredible
things you've done. And yeah, your
company's doing what what 12 billion
dollars in revenue annually.
>> Well, it's a group of companies, not
just
>> group of companies. Yeah. And then
earlier on, you said you'd spoken to
these 50 very, very rich people in the
pursuit of writing the books that you've
written about wealth and finance and
money.
Pattern recognition.
>> That's right.
>> What is the pattern that you noticed in
those people that you then applied to
yourself? What is the pattern? You know,
this is called the diary of a CEO. So,
I'm sure we have a lot of people that
are thinking about building businesses,
want to get financially free, especially
in a world of AI where they're they're
very uncertain about how they'll make
money and how they'll provide stability
that to their family. What is the
pattern that you have found in all of
those people that you have met and
interviewed and I know you know some of
the most wealthy people on earth because
I know you coach a lot of them. Um, I
don't think people fully realize the
significance of how many of the most
influential people on planet earth you
have worked with and continue to work
with. Um, I found it hilarious reading
that Bill Clinton called [clears throat]
you uh the day before he was going to be
impeached telling you that he was going
to be impeached and asking you what he
should do.
>> Yeah. First, let's say what everybody
makes the mistake on the majority of
people. We live in a free enterprise
system and we have kids that all think
communism is great. I just want you to
know I went to the USSR when it was
still the USSR. I was 24 years old. I
was brought there because of my
firewalking experience. And I went on a
train from from Moscow to Siberia and
back for two weeks. On the train, we
were all fed caviar and the most
incredible meals as were all the
Russians on the plane, right? We're
supposed to be all equal, right? That's
supposedly what communism is. It's
everything's fair for everybody. Every
single town, we'd stop in the square
where the there and in the square
there's a big building and they wrapped
around for about maybe a quarter of a
mile. people standing in the freezing
cold to get a quart of milk and a half a
thing of bread. I left there and I
became a capitalist. I didn't know what
a capitalist was, but I knew I wasn't a
communist. Right? So, people in our
country are the free enterprise system,
but they don't understand it. So, what
are they making the mistake of? They're
consumers. They're not owners. We are a
consumer society and we train these kids
to be consumers. Adults as well. So,
I'll give you a simple example. I looked
I was trying to give an example to a
young kid the other day, so I actually
did the math on it. You have an iPhone?
Yeah.
>> Okay. Have you always had an iPhone?
>> Well, yeah. For the last decade or more.
Yeah.
>> All right. So, iPhones around for what,
18 years, 19 years. I went and did the
numbers and found out what the cost was
for every iPhone. Add it up. If you got
an iPhone each time, somebody who's
older to do it, you spent 22,000 and
some change at the retail price. If you
bought the stock, I went and saw what
the stock was on the same day the thing
came out and you bought the stock. Same
amount of money of the stock.
>> Apple stock.
>> Apple stock. $326,000 right now. Instead
of out 22 grand, you have 326. If you're
going to use an Apple phone, I'm not
saying it's Apple specifically. I'm not
making a recommendation. Why would you
not own the company, right? Because we
don't teach people to think that way.
And so now they think communism is going
to be the answer. They don't understand
what that really means. They have no
clue. So you have to become an owner.
You have that's what you have to do.
Then the second piece is when I
interviewed all these people, I found
four things with them. I found number
one their focus didn't matter if they're
a macro trader or if they were value
trader or it didn't matter what their
style was the four things that had in
common I call them the core four was
number one they all were focused on not
losing money most people are trying to
make money and the reason is they know
if you lose you know you you lose you
got a $100,000 investment and you lose
50%
how much do you have to grow your money
to get your money back and people will
say 50% %. No, you got to grow at 100%.
>> Right? You get it?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right. So, they know that. So, they're
first making sure they don't. Now, how
do they do that? They do it by asset
allocation, right? They all have
different asset allocation strategies,
which at the most basic level is you
don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Most people put all their money in their
business or their house, right? They
know that that is the kiss of death. And
so they look at how to divide their
assets where they have a certain amount
in a more secure environment, meaning
not a lot of upside, but it's like the
nest egg. And they have some that are
more at risk. And there's different and
I learned what theirs are and I taught
those different ones. But the most
valuable one I know, you know, because I
read it in your book and I was really
impressed. Asymmetrical riskreward.
Their entire focus is not about taking
risks, right? There are few only a few
people. You think you're a billionaire
because you took giant risks, right? No,
no, no. may have some do, but they don't
usually stay billionaires doing that,
right?
>> How do they do it? They figure out
what's the smallest amount of risk with
the most amount of upside that I can do.
And so Paul Tudtor Jones's approach was
5 to one. If I'm going to risk a dollar,
I want to be certain I can make five.
You and I, most average people would
normally think, I used to think, well,
12, 15, 20% return, right? But here's
how it works. If I risk $1 and I'm
certain I make five, and I'm wrong. I'm
down one. I can risk a dollar and still
make four. I can be wrong four times out
of five and still be okay. That's how
those guys become billionaires.
Asymmetrical reward. I was talking to a
gentleman um who in 19 2008, excuse me.
He took $25 million and turned into $2
billion in the worst economic time. He
[snorts] anticipated what was going to
happen with real estate. Everybody
thought it was going to keep going up.
He used synthetic bets and bet against
it. Made $2 billion. Brilliant.
Brilliant job. And I said to him, you
know what? What is the things that's
missing for investors? He goes, well,
the smartest investors are usually the
worst investors because they want
absolute certainty. They know everything
before they decide. And by that time,
the opportunity is gone.
>> Mhm. [clears throat]
>> And he said, but the most important key
for him was asymmetrical riskreward. He
said, I risked, I think he said he
risked six cents for every dollar. He
could have been wrong a dozen times, but
he wasn't. That's how he did it, right?
And then the fourth one is the obvious
one we both know which is
diversification. But this is the real
key. You know Ray Dalz, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I've interviewed him
actually.
>> Yeah. So Ray's a good friend. One of the
questions I asked him was if we had to
reduce it to the single most important
investment principle to know. I mean
you're the Da Vinci of investing. No one
has made more money than you in this
area. You know I said what is it? Is
there one? There's got to be one. And he
goes Tony there is. He goes, "I spent
almost nine years refining this and it's
so simple. It's the holy grail of
investing is to find 8 to 12
uncorrelated investments that you feel
strongly about. If you find 8 to 12 of
those, you reduce your risk 80% and keep
your upside. In fact, you slightly
enhance your upside.
>> Uncorrelated for someone
>> uncorrelated. That's that's the hard
part today because so many markets are
correlated.
>> What does uncorrelated mean for someone
that does?" Well, for example, stocks
and bonds traditionally are thought of
as uncorrelated. Meaning, you know,
stocks in a tough time, those are the
excuse me, in a growing time, stocks are
where you put your money, but bonds are
to protect you when the market goes
down. Unfortunately, doing most things
like 2008 or 2020, they both go down at
that time, but nobody talks about that.
They just go, "Oh, it's this weird
thing. It happens regularly."
>> So, things that don't move together.
>> That's right. They don't move together.
Well, so much is tied together today.
But the only way to really do it is
you've got to have private investment.
private equity, private credit, private
real estate. You have to diversify
beyond just stocks and bonds. And then
you can get that across it by different
industries, different elements. Because
think about this, this will blow your
mind. Private equity, basic private
equity, not I interviewed 12 of the best
in the world. Basic private equity has
outproduced every stock market in the
world for 40 years. Every single stock
market in the world every year for 40
years. Now, you don't have total
liquidity. That's you're giving
something up, but your returns are in a
different place. They don't have to sell
when things are tough. They take
advantage. These are the smartest people
out there. They're not just trying to
get alpha. They're building value,
right? They take a company, they put AI
in it, they bring new people to it, and
then they take it to the public or in
most cases, they sell it to private
companies. There's fewer public
companies than ever. So, I looked it up
and it was f fantastic seed. The average
S&P for 39 years was 9%. Nice return. If
you put a million dollars down, you
know, you'd have $28 million, you know,
39 years later without doing anything.
But if you put it in basic private
equity, basic private equity is average
15.7%.
Think about the difference of
compounding that every single year.
>> That's crazy.
>> Now it's worth $328 million.
That's the difference between the same
investment in public versus private. So
it's finding these pieces. But when you
can do 8 to 12 uncorrelated investments
or more, reduce your risk by 80%. That's
how you get higher returns and the same
time because most people are behind. And
so
>> you didn't come from a financial
background.
>> No. No. I have no financial background.
>> You didn't study finance in university?
>> No.
>> So, so where did you learn all this
stuff about finance?
>> By going to the very best on earth. Like
why would I go to university to a
professor who's never done anything when
I can go to 50 of the smartest people on
earth or in private equity? I went to 13
of the smartest ones, most successful in
history. Is your superpower learning?
>> Yes. I think it's that's what I tried to
say to you from the beginning. That's
what pattern recognition, pattern
utilization, pattern creation is. If you
don't learn at a rapid tempo in the
world right now, you're cheating
yourself of an extraordinary life.
>> Is there a tactic or a strategy to make
me a better learner? Especially someone
that does this pockets. I get to meet
people like you. So, I want to store
everything. Yes. In this time that we
have.
>> Yes. I I'm I believe in immersion and
space repetition. So, I believe like did
did you take a language in school?
>> Oh, god. Yeah. German. Can you speak it?
>> Nine. [laughter]
>> That's right. So, most people go to
college or high school and college and
they take a language, right? And five
years later, 10 years later, can't speak
a word, right? Immersion is how you do
it. So, if I wanted to teach you a
language and you had the time and money,
I would take you to Italy and I would
drop you in the middle of Rome and say,
"I'll see you in 90 days." With no one
to teach you in 90 days, are you going
to be speaking the language?
>> Better.
>> Yeah.
>> You're going to speak the language.
You're going to know the nuances of the
language. you're going to have a pitch
and tone that's more there because it's
how you learned originally by total
immersion. So the reason I do 12 hours a
day for 4 days, 50 hours in a weekend or
60 hours and most people think I'll
never do that, but they're having the
time of their life. So time disappears
when you're enjoying yourself and you
hate it. I mean it feels like eternity.
But the reason I'm able to do that is
that immersion is like years of
experience and you're in a peak state
while you're doing it. So you remember
it because it's locked in like 911 as
opposed to 811. So, I love that. The
other thing that I do is I'm capturing
and I use AI now to do it. I've kept
journals my whole life just like you
looks like you've done, but I'm building
on it, but I have my AI that I've been
feeding over and over and over again the
things I wanted to remember, the
principles, and I create structures to
evaluate these things.
>> And I asked you there about how these
wealthy investors make their money. Um,
the the last question I really have
around this is how the best
entrepreneurs in the world make their
money. Um, again, we're called the diary
of a CEO. So, there's lots of
entrepreneurs and build business
builders watching. And I know you've
worked with many of the world's top
entrepreneurs. In fact, one of them
wrote you a letter.
>> Oh, which one?
>> Mark Ben off.
>> Oh, I love Mark. He's a beautiful man.
>> For anyone that doesn't know who Mark
is. Um, he's the the founder CEO of
Salesforce.
>> Yes. Yeah. He actually came to four, I
think, or five of my seminars originally
in a row, same seminar. And uh, you
know, Mark's as big as I am. He's a big
guy and he was going for it full tilt.
And finally after the fourth one, he
came up to me and said, "You've
convinced me. I'm going to leave Oracle.
I'm going to start my own business. I
want you to come on the journey with me.
It's called Salesforce.com." He said,
"We're going to change business around
the world." And he said this to me. He
goes, "And I promise you, we'll get to a
hundred million dollars in business."
Now he's doing like 42 billion, right?
So, but Mark's what I love about Mark is
he's a contributor. He's he's a social
CEO. Like he does things for society. He
isn't just about himself. He's an
extraordinary human being. He said,
"Dear Tony, I am so deeply grateful for
everything that you've done for me over
the last four decades." He talked about
the seminars he'd been to with you and
says that you've transformed his life
through your inspiration and ideas. He
talks about that particular seminar you
referenced as the moment that led him to
go deeper and deeper and deeper. He said
it was at date with Destiny that I made
the firm decision to leave Oracle and
start my own company. We even had a
brief conversation about it back then.
If you remember,
>> I remember.
>> Fast forward 26 years and Salesforce now
has 80,000 employees and generates over
40 billion in revenue annually. It
stands as the largest enterprise
software company in the world. I truly
could not have done it without you by my
side. And as you always say, we often
overestimate what we can do in one year,
but we vastly underestimate what we can
do in a few decades. Tony, I started
this letter with gratitude. And I'll end
it the same way. When I reached my most
difficult moments, you were there. When
I reached my highest heights, you were
also there. I never forgot that whenever
I reached out for help, you returned the
phone call or text, always quickly.
Business and politics are temporal, but
relationships are eternal, and yours is
one I carry with me always.
Congratulations on everything you're
doing. I look forward to a wonderful
future with you. Aloha, Mark. That's
very beautiful.
It makes me a little emotional, but I
just I love Mark. He's such a good man
and
um I was very kind of him to write that
letter. He says he gives me more credit
than I deserve. Um but I I love him
personally. I love I I love strangers.
I'm driven by that. But I love Mark
because he's such a giver. I I see him
as a a role model of what a great CEO
is. Someone who understands the social
impact of what they're doing as well as
the business impact. Um, he's got a
heart of gold and of course we all have
ups and downs throughout our lives and
and he thinks he's just I've just helped
him, he's helped me, too. It's like it's
never a one one way piece. It's not like
I go around and coach all these people.
I'm no idiot. I've learned so much from
Mark. Uh, it's priceless. So, I have to
I have to send that thanks right back to
him. No question about it.
>> Where does that emotion come from that I
see in your face?
>> I don't know. I was just like
I'm I'm an emotional guy. I'm empathetic
guy and I'm I'm a lover, you know?
That's what drives all that I do. And to
um see somebody I love and to see how
far he's come and to know that um I've
been able to be helpful to him at at key
moments um is meaningful. You know, it's
extremely meaningful cuz he's provided
opportunities for millions of people,
80,000 employees, but millions of people
through his creativity and his focus.
And we've done a lot of cool things
together. I called him one time. I was
up in uh San Francisco for other
business. And um I read in the paper
that this this landlord was kicking out
these nuns who had the food kitchen in
the the worst part of the city there in
the Tenderloin district. And I was like,
"This guy's an idiot. I mean, I got to I
got to do something." So instead of
leaving, I spent an extra day and I went
and met these nuns, most incredible
ladies. And they were spending all their
time cooking food so they could sell
food so they could make money so they
could actually prepare food for the
homeless there. and in this tiny little
building and they were getting kicked
out. So I called the owner and I said
listen I'm own a lot of real estate
also. I understand your rights as a real
estate guy but I said do you want to be
the most hated guy in San Francisco? I
said I'll give you an option. How about
let them stay to the end of the year.
I'll pay their lease. I'll pay twice the
amount and then I'll get them out. I
said but you don't push them out now on
the street. So we agreed. And so then I
said to ladies, "Let's find a place for
you and I'll help you find a place.
We'll rent a place for you." And then I
started getting phone calls and one of
the phone calls I got says realtor and
he goes they're they're looking to buy a
place and I said I said well where are
they getting the money? I said they said
I don't know. So I called and made none
up and she goes uh I said you know I I
was said I'd you know pay for a place
for you guys for a year you know lease
you a place. I said but I hear you're
looking to buy a place. Do you guys have
some capital I'm not aware of? And she
goes no. She goes will provide Tony
like God will provide. So, so I spent, I
don't know, a million two or something
like that to find them a place. But then
I called Mark because I didn't want them
living in the place. I said, "Mark,
match me on this." And I mean, he didn't
hesitate a second. He had not even met
the nuns. Then he went the nuns, we went
met them, and he went and he bought them
a home for them to stay in. And and then
we went through four years of the city
trying to not let them take over this
place. But that's the kind of guy Mark
is. So, he's incredibly generous and I'm
very touched that I could count him as a
friend and be a helpful to him. and
you've been so helpful to me.
>> I've learned quite a lot about you today
just from observing you and two one of
the big things that I've learned is the
two moments where I've seen tears in
your eyes
>> have both been moments where people have
expressed a huge amount of love and
appreciation for you.
>> That's true.
>> And I I work back through your early
earliest years and I again it's almost
like a a jigsaw puzzle coming into
formation in my mind of how how much you
love love.
>> I do. I think love is life. Love is the
driving force in my life for sure.
There's no question about it. And that's
why I can't I I hate to see suffering
because it's the opposite of love. You
know, if you love somebody, what do you
do? Anything you can. So that's what I'm
called to do. And it is it's a calling.
It's not a job. It's not a business. You
I have all kinds of businesses obviously
and I enjoy business. But this is my
mission. This is what I'm made for. And
um I'm just one guy. I can't do
everything, but I can do a lot. And I'm
always figuring how to scale more,
right? you know, whether it's feeding
people or I'm getting, you know, my wife
and I, we were fortunate enough to have
our own plane and I I don't want to just
burn up a bunch of carbon. I found it's
3,000 trees. I said, let's plant a 100
million trees. So, we're up to 75
million. I think we're going to hit the
100 million this year. And but we didn't
just plant the trees. We talked to
farmers, work with an organization about
how to build a build a crop not once a
year, but to do it across 12 different
months so that if something drops, they
come out and they go from earning a $125
a day and starving to making $12 a day,
which doesn't sound like much makes them
rich in that community. So, we're doing
that. It's like I just I love taking
things to scale, too. It's like I love
the individual impact and I love the the
global impact. The combination of the
two make life ever challenging and ever
exciting
>> with people like Mark and entrepreneurs.
My last question about this pattern
recognition and my last question is just
as me as a you know I'm I'm an
entrepreneur. I'm building businesses at
the moment. I'm earlier in my journey
much earlier than someone like Mark. But
what is the pattern that you've seen in
these exceptional founders and
entrepreneurs as it relates to building
great businesses that you would impart
on me?
>> I don't think there's anything I'm going
to impart on you that you don't already
know because the fundamentals are so
simple. Um, you have to the business has
to be more than a vehicle for money. And
don't get me wrong, I mean, there are
people who have certainly succeeded that
way. But if you look at the people that
build something that's lasting, it has
to be a passion where it's something you
believe in so much. It's so valuable.
It's a contribution sense to you, not
just an economic sense. Because in the
beginning of a business, it's like
having a child. You know, you know, you
don't get a lot back. You work around
the clock. You'll discover when your
first child comes and you love them.
It's it's the pride of ownership. But if
you're just a lot of people start a
business think they're gonna get rich
overnight or make some and those people
never succeed. So it's like finding
something a vision that not only you
believe in but others are completely
moved by because you can attract people.
You can't build an organization without
great people. And do you think I could
run all these companies if I was just
sitting there every day? I mean I've got
some of the greatest leaders I could
possibly recruit. I'm constantly looking
for the second part which is how do I
find leaders? How do I find leaders that
are smarter than I am in various areas
and where I can pull together the right
people together and create a culture
that adds a massive value and
continually does so until it dominates
the that industry or that market or that
marketplace. So I think you have to find
something that's more than just a
business for you. It has to be more than
economics for you. It has to be a
mission for the most successful people.
You have to be able to have something
you can articulate that can attract
people. And you have to constantly find
the very best that you can. And you got
to constantly prune because the law of
familiarity shows up. That's what your
friends went through, right? They got
all these great things but know how
great it is after a while it's familiar.
You know, it's like they don't they
don't have the same hunger. I look for
not only wickedly smart people, which I
love, but hungry people. When people ask
me like, "What is the one common
denominator of people that succeed on a
massive scale around the world?" I'd
always in the beginning say,"Well, I
love wicked intelligence, but I know a
lot of very smart people that can't
fight their way out of a paper bag in
their relationship or their finances."
You know, they're smart in one area, not
another. But the one that is absolutely
completely accurate is hunger. The
hunger to be more, to do more, to give
more, to share more. Somebody who has a
hunger that doesn't die, not a hunger to
get make a certain amount of money or a
hunger to achieve, you know, a swimsuit
size, but a hunger that's unquenchable.
Those are the people that you know their
names because they have an impact. So
it's like whether it's Richard Branson
who's in his 70, he has the same hunger
today as when he was 16 years old in
that crypt in your country coming up
with Virgin, right? I mean it's same
level. Let's give it a go, right? He's
got that peace, you know? Anybody you
see, you know, look at the people you
have on your show and think about how
many of them still have that hunger.
Kevin Hart is a friend of mine. I know
he's been on your show. I mean, he's one
of the hardest working guys, but he's
hungry. He loves it. He want he just
wants to do it all. To me, that's the
gift. and stoking your hunger or
awakening someone's hunger that doesn't
have it. That's a real gift and that's
one of the gifts I think I've tried to
refine within myself and help people
with.
>> My last question is of all the things
we've talked about today and everything
else that's going on in your life and
the world, what is the most important
thing we should have talked about that
we didn't talk about?
>> We covered a lot of territory.
[laughter]
I'm impressed by the diversity of what
we got to cover. Thank you. We went
deep. Um I don't know if there's
anything that off the top of my head
right now. I I do think that I hope
people leave with the idea that if I'm
stressed in my life, I got to stop
managing. I got to start creating. And
that that sounds like just an
overwhelming thing, but it's like
creating life on your terms. Like
deciding what are the immutables. It's
like um if you want to take the island,
you got to burn your boats.
>> Uh if if you have a way to go back, the
mind will rationalize and you will go
back. But if you really are committed to
a greater quality of life, you got to
master the science of achievement and
the art of fulfillment. And fulfillment
is not like achievement. There's very
cool real rules for achievement like
what to do with your body, multiple
ones, but there's certain fundamentals
that are immutable. What to do
financially, certain things that are
immutable.
Fulfillment
that success without fulfillment is
failure. And fulfillment is an art. It's
not a science. It's different for you
and me and everybody we meet. And so I
I'll tell you one real fast example. I
know we've gone over in time. Um Steve
Win's a good friend of mine, built most
of Las Vegas. Brilliant guy. Absolutely
brilliant. And um one day Steve calls
up. He goes, "There's a painting that I
have coveted for over a decade and he
goes, "I just recently outdid everybody
at Southbes and it just got delivered
and you got to see it." And I said,
"Okay, I can't see." I said, "But I got
to ask a question. How much did it set
you back?" And he goes, "$86.9 million.
I go, "8 $86.9 million." Okay, I got to
see what an $87 million painting looks
like. So, I go to his house. He takes me
in,
shows me this wall. It's a red square.
It's a Rothco, if you know what a Rothco
is. It's a red square. And it's not
totally red, a little red and orange,
right? And I look at him. I go, "Steve,
they missed some spots." [laughter] And
he looks at me and gives me the look.
And I start to tease him a little bit. I
go, "Steve, if you give me a $100 worth
with the red paint and you give me 10
minutes, I think I can match this." And
I'm just screwing him with a little bit.
He knows I'm screwing. He goes, "You
know, this is a Rothco." I said, "I
know." He goes, "No, but you don't
know." Like, you know, he committed
suicide. He tells me the whole story,
right? And I go, "Well, that better be
blood of his for $87 million, right?"
But the reason I tell you the story is
it's not making fun of Steve. It's
making fun of me. He can look at that
and he can barely see. And he knows what
every stroke means. It has meaning for
him. He knows what it's about, what it
means, the uniqueness of it. He's the
man's life. I see a red square. He has
an experience.
The richness of life is when you go
deeper and figure out what makes you
feel like it's a red square for someone
else, but this is your thing. This is
what fulfills you. I know what fulfills
me. Family, love, as you can probably
tell, and contribution in a meaningful
way. Light me up like a Christmas tree,
and they've made me go for 66 years, and
it'll keep me going, right? But people
got to find what that is for themselves.
Because if you succeed and you're not
fulfilled,
what do you got? How many people have
taken their life? They're super
successful on the surface, but they
weren't fulfilled. Some of the people
made everybody on earth laugh when they
took their life. Some people did
businesses and took their life. You
don't want I don't I don't think most
people are going to take their life, but
you don't want to live more decades and
not really be here, not experiencing
fulfillment. So, my passion is to help
people be fulfilled, not just achieve.
>> Amen. I mean, I've got so many other
photos that I might as well show you.
The ones that
>> This is the moment my wife and I met.
>> That is the moment you met.
>> Literally the moment we met. How did she
get the one?
>> That's my mom. That's Jim Robbins. This
man adopted me.
>> This one here.
>> Oh, that's down uh this one is actually
down in Haiti. I went down there. That's
where first group people went to save
>> all these kids. These were kids that had
been trafficked.
>> Yeah. my brother and sister. Wow, you do
your homework. Very impressive.
>> We We have a closing tradition where the
last guest leaves a question for the
next, not knowing who they're leaving it
for. And the question left for you is,
if you could choose your life span, how
long would it be and at what point would
you choose to die?
>> That's a great question. Well, I
certainly would want to live um as long
as my family does, and now I've got to
live a little longer because I got a
four-year-old. Um [snorts]
I don't know if I'd want to live
forever. Um
I don't know. You know, there's talk
about, you know, uploading your
consciousness to a machine and so forth.
I don't I believe in spirit and soul. I
don't know if that's going to be
uplifted machine. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe
it's just the process. But I want to
leave as much legacy as possible. I want
to live as long as I'm interested and
useful. You know, those are the two
things that are really matter. And you
know, my minimum I think is 92 is my
goal as if I had control, right? Life
will tell me. But 92 for the number that
somehow I've had in my head and what
some of the boosts we have with bio
chemistry and element stem cells, who
knows? Maybe it goes past 100. But uh I
think a century of living and giving
would be an extraordinary experience for
me. I don't know if I'd want to live for
eternity, but I'm not at that point
where that's really a choice, so I don't
have to think about it. Um, I I will
tell you the only fear that I've really
felt in my life was dying too soon. I
think part of my drive early on was just
I want to squeeze everything out of life
while I'm here. I don't know where it's
come from. I think, you know, couple
things could have contributed to it, but
I think death was a good counselor for
me. It gave me drive to the today. It
it's not a fear for me other than I want
to be here as long as I can for my
family and for especially all my
children. but especially my youngest.
But yeah, that would be my answer. I'd
say not forever, but as long as I'm
useful and helpful and I can enjoy it
all.
>> You use the word legacy there.
>> Yeah. Well, legacy is um what I leave
when I'm gone. In other words, I don't
have to be here to continue to have
impact, right? It's like that's the best
part of life. I I looked at, you know,
leadership is influence, right? What
makes you a leader is your ability to
influence thoughts, feelings, emotions,
actions, another person if you're a
positive leader for good. And I look at
levels of influence. One is can you
influence someone to change their state?
Then it's can you influence them to
change your state when you're not there?
So you're no longer a manager, right?
You've changed their values. Could you
change your state and they're not there
for a group of people? Right? Could you
change your state with a mass number of
people and you're not there? Right? That
to me is the ultimate level of
influence. And now with audios and
videos and AI, especially with AI, I've
got an AI that's amazing. I mean, we
have 4.9 in Apple and people love it and
their lives changed by it. And I'm I'm
working right now with another group um
to create a platform for interventions
and therapy that's not just me with AI
because there aren't enough therapists.
There aren't enough great therapists in
the world. I want to have that. It's
already in 50 languages. So the whole
world I want to leave a legacy that the
world has people that can help them 24/7
365. And I think AI is one of the tools.
It's getting better and better to do
that.
>> And what happens when you die? Where do
you go? I I I don't think anything in
the universe I know nothing in the
universe ever destroys it changes form.
What does that look like? Do I have
conscious awareness that as I do now? I
don't know the answer to that question.
Uh all I want to do is make sure I live
fully while I'm here and whatever's next
when it shows up, I'll I'll take that
journey. Thank you so much uh for so
many reasons. I think you've been a
you've been a mentor to so many of us
for for so long in so many ways. Whether
it's I remember how profoundly impacted
I was when I watched your um your piece
on Netflix and
>> Oh, no. Your guru. Yeah.
>> Yeah. That was really the front door for
me into your world. I'd seen I'd seen
your work before I' I'd read the books
and stuff, but for me that was really a
paradigm shifting moment. I think it was
in that documentary where there was a
young man who was suicidal. Yeah, it was
that one. The Netflix I'm not there was
Yeah, there was one. That's how it
started actually.
>> Matias.
>> Yes. Matteas.
>> Matteas.
That was what six years ago?
>> No. No, that was 2014.
>> 2014. Okay. Wow.
>> Yeah.
>> Gosh.
>> There was a young woman there also. I
don't know if you remember the young
woman that was in that sex cult where
they made the children have sex with the
adults.
>> That one was very emotional. I was down
in Brazil and I was doing a seminar for,
you know, about 10,000 people. And I'm
walking through the aisle and this woman
kept looking at me and then I didn't
realize it. She goes, "Don't you
recognize me?" And it was her. She got
herself out of the group. She's wrote a
book. She's now a therapist. She helps
other people get out of it. So, it's
really fun to see years later. We
actually did a follow-up at the 7-year
mark or something like that afterwards
to show what happened with these
families. It's been really nice to see.
>> Did you say his name? His name was
Matias. Matias.
>> Matias, I believe. Matias. He he just
wanted to he sent an email just to say
that for anyone that doesn't know, he
was a a guy in the audience who was had
suicidal ideiation and was clearly
struggling.
>> Yeah.
>> Um it's been what a decade roughly since
then. you you supported him, you helped
him. And he's just sent an email to say
that attending that event that day was a
huge dream for him and the experiences
that he got from that have completely
changed the trajectory of his life. And
those memories continue to impact him as
he continues to support um his growth,
his habits, his decisions, and his
outcomes. And he wanted to send his
regards to you for that.
>> That was really kind of him to reach
out. That's nice. I love seeing people a
year later, 10 years later, 20 years
later. That's the great gift of my life.
I walk down the street anywhere on
earth. Sarah desert has happened to me
in China. People come up and say, "You
changed my life." And I always remind
them, "I didn't change your life. You
did, but glad I got to help. What
happened?" And then they tell me
stories. And outside my family, there's
nothing that gives me more joy than to
hear those stories.
>> Well, you've done that for more people
than I could possibly receive emails
from. Um, hundreds of billions really,
if we're counting the amount of people,
the amount of meals you fed through the
the work you've done through your
company. you even you've invested
tremendously also in in saving the
planet through your green energy
investments which we didn't get to talk
about today but I'm going to link that
below for people to read about.
>> One thing I would mention if I may is I
uh Paramount approached me and we now
have a 24-hour day channel and uh it's
it's a fast channel so it's free
advertised supported television. It's a
TV I grew up with instead of cable. So,
if you go to um whether it's Pluto or if
you go to Roku or if you go to Amazon
Prime and you look for live TV, there's
the Tony Robbins network and 24 hours a
day there's content there that's free
that anybody can watch and educate
themselves and they're full of
interventions like these that you talked
about. So, I hope some people will check
it out because it's a it's a way I'm
another way I'm trying to give people a
gift to support their lives.
>> I'm going to link that below and also
I'm going to put a link below to your
free 3-day virtual event called Time to
Rise which I think we mentioned.
>> Oh, yeah. Please come to that. You don't
want to say come. You can do it from
anywhere in the world. Your office, your
home. And it's coming up on the 29th
through the 31st of January.
>> And it's perfect timing at the start of
the new year. People thinking about
making a change in their life. I'm going
to link that below as well if anybody
wants to attend. It's free 3 days and
it's uh I think it's a great
continuation of the conversation we've
had today because we've talked so much
about change, a changing world, and how
to change thyself. And um that's what
you've done for me. It's what you've
done for so many people. And it's an
absolute honor. It's actually for me
there have certain moments when I in the
job that I do where I think [__] hell
like how lucky I'm grateful am I to get
to do this and this is one of those such
moments that is a is a real dream for me
because you're you're such a huge
inspiration to me. So thank you so much
Tony for your graciousness. I appreciate
>> I just want you I feel the same way. I
feel like uh you're the next wave of
contribution to this world and you're
doing an amazing job already but I got a
ticket to your parade. I'm gonna watch
how you evolve over the next couple of
decades and I know your your
contributions will only grow because I
feel the sincerity in your heart not
only to grow but to give and uh I hope
that you continue to move towards that
love and contribution you're talking
about cuz I think that's your true
essence. I think that's really what
drives you anyway.
>> I think so too.
>> Yeah. Thank you.
>> Thank you. [music]
>> This is something that I've made for
you. I've realized that the direio
audience are striv
goals that we want to accomplish. And
one of the things I've learned is that
when you aim at the big big big goal, it
can feel incredibly psychologically
uncomfortable because it's kind of like
being stood at the foot of Mount Everest
and looking upwards. The way to
accomplish your goals is by breaking
them down into tiny small steps. And we
call this in our team the 1%. And
actually this philosophy is highly
responsible for much of our success
here. So what we've done so that you at
home can accomplish any big goal that
you have is we've made these 1% diaries
and we released these last year and they
all sold out. So I asked my team over
and over again to bring the diaries back
but also to introduce some new colors
and to make some minor tweaks to the
diary. So now we have a better range for
you. So, if you have a big goal in mind
and you need a framework and a process
and some motivation, then I highly
recommend you get one of these diaries
before they all sell out once again. And
you can get yours now at the diary.com
where you can get 20% off our Black
Friday bundle. And if you want the link,
the link is in the description below.
[music]
Heat. Heat. N.
[singing]
>> [music]